





















 Google Groups is ending support for Usenet to combat spam






























































































News



Featured
Latest







New Black Basta decryptor exploits ransomware flaw to recover files





Malware abuses Google OAuth endpoint to ‘revive’ cookies, hijack accounts





Hospitals ask courts to force cloud storage firm to return stolen data





Microsoft disables MSIX protocol handler abused in malware attacks









 Google Groups is ending support for Usenet to combat spam





Victoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attack





Get started in ethical hacking with $155 off this course bundle deal





The law enforcement operations targeting cybercrime in 2023








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsGoogle Google Groups is ending support for Usenet to combat spam







 















 Google Groups is ending support for Usenet to combat spam


By Mayank Parmar




January 2, 2024
12:03 PM
0





Google has officially announced it's ceasing support for Usenet groups on its Google Groups platform, a move partly attributed to the platform's increasing struggle with spam content.
The upcoming changes will take effect from February 22, 2024, after which users can no longer post, subscribe, or view new Usenet content through Google Groups.
However, historical Usenet content posted before this cutoff date will remain accessible for viewing and searching on the platform.
Google says the change is primarily due to a decline in text-based Usenet groups, with the platform mainly being used to share files or to post spam. Usenet is now commonly used to share copyrighted content, such as video games, applications, movies, and TV shows.
"Over the last several years, legitimate activity in text-based Usenet groups has declined significantly because users have moved to more modern technologies and formats such as social media and web-based forums," explains a support document about the upcoming change.
"Much of the content being disseminated via Usenet today is binary (non-text) file sharing, which Google Groups does not support, as well as spam."

Spam in Google GroupsSource: BleepingComputer
This change also marks the end of Google's Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP) server services, including its content peering with other NNTP servers. As a result, Google will not support the dissemination of new Usenet content or its exchange with other servers.
Importantly, this update will not affect non-Usenet content on Google Groups, which includes the vast majority of user and organization-created groups currently active on the platform.
Google offers help to those actively using Usenet content
For those actively using Usenet content, Google has provided guidance on transitioning to alternative platforms.
Users are advised to find a new Usenet client and a public Usenet server, saying there are numerous free and paid options available.
Google suggests conducting web searches for "how do I find a Usenet text client" and "public NNTP servers" to assist in this transition.
Since Usenet is a distributed system, there is no requirement for data migration.
All Usenet content currently accessible on Google Groups should be available on the new servers selected by users, and once a new client and server are chosen, users can simply reselect their preferred groups to continue their engagement with Usenet content.
In its statement, Google also highlighted the declining legitimate activity on text-based Usenet groups, attributing this trend to the shift of users towards modern communication technologies such as social media and web-based forums.

Related Articles:
Malware abuses Google OAuth endpoint to ‘revive’ cookies, hijack accountsNew Xamalicious Android malware installed 330k times on Google PlayGoogle Chrome now scans for compromised passwords in the background‘Wall of Flippers’ detects Flipper Zero Bluetooth spam attacksAndroid malware Chameleon disables Fingerprint Unlock to steal PINs











Google
Google Groups
NNTP
Spam
Usenet
























Mayank Parmar   
Mayank Parmar is journalist covering technology news, but with a strong focus on Microsoft and Windows related stories. He is always poking under the hood of Windows looking for the latest secrets to reveal.




 Previous Article 



Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment

Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:













Popular Stories






Android game dev’s Google Drive misconfig highlights cloud security risks







The biggest cybersecurity and cyberattack stories of 2023

































Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2024  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT











