





















Victoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attack































































































News



Featured
Latest







New Black Basta decryptor exploits ransomware flaw to recover files





Malware abuses Google OAuth endpoint to ‘revive’ cookies, hijack accounts





Hospitals ask courts to force cloud storage firm to return stolen data





Microsoft disables MSIX protocol handler abused in malware attacks









 Google Groups is ending support for Usenet to combat spam





Victoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attack





Get started in ethical hacking with $155 off this course bundle deal





The law enforcement operations targeting cybercrime in 2023








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsSecurityVictoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attack







 















Victoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attack


By Bill Toulas




January 2, 2024
10:47 AM
0





Australia's Court Services Victoria (CSV) is warning that video recordings of court hearings were exposed after suffering a reported Qilin ransomware attack.
CSV is an independent statutory authority that provides services to Victoria's court systems, including case management systems and administrative solutions.
In a statement published today on its website, CSV says it detected a cyberattack on December 21, 2023, that allowed hackers to disrupt operations and access its audio-visual archive containing sensitive hearing recordings.
The impacted system was immediately isolated and disabled, but the ensuing investigation revealed that the breach occurred at an earlier date, December 8th, 2023, with the exposed recordings going as far back as November 1, 2023.
"The cyber incident led to unauthorised access leading to the disruption of the audio visual in-court technology network, impacting video recordings, audio recordings and transcription services," reads the CSV statement.
"Recordings of some hearings in courts between 1 November and 21 December 2023 may have been accessed. It is possible some hearings before 1 November are also affected."
Specifically, the following courts and jurisdictions have been impacted by the security incident:
Supreme Court – hearings from the Court of Appeal, Criminal Division, and Practice Court between December 1 and 21, and two regional hearings in November 2023.
County Court – hearings from all criminal and civil courts from November 1 to December 21, 2023.
Magistrates' Court – some committals heard between November 1 and December 21, 2023.
Children's Court – one hearing from October 2023.
Coroners Court – all hearings that took place between November 1 and December 21, 2023.
The above recordings contain a mix of public and confidential information, so depending on the case, they may expose sensitive information regarding court cases.
Where possible, impacted courts will send out breach notices to those deemed impacted by the incident.
CSV has also notified the authorities about the potential data breach, including the Victoria Police, Victorian Department of Government Services, and Australia's National Identity and Cyber Support Community Service (IDCARE).
Though CSV is still in the process of restructuring the impacted system with more focus on security, court operations in Victoria will not be affected, and all cases scheduled for January 2024 are expected to proceed normally.
The authority's does not name the cybercriminals responsible for the attack, but sources speaking to ABC News report that the Qilin ransomware gang carried out the attack.
The Qilin ransomware operation was launched under the name "Agenda" in August 2022 but was later rebranded as Qilin.
Since its launch, the ransomware operation has had a steady stream of victims but has seen increased activity towards the end of 2023.
BleepingComputer has not been able to independently confirm if Qilin is behind the attack, and there is no mention of CSV on their data leak site.

Related Articles:
Kansas courts confirm data theft, ransom demand after cyberattackIntegris Health patients get extortion emails after cyberattackNissan Australia cyberattack claimed by Akira ransomware gangHealthcare software provider data breach impacts 2.7 millionFBI disrupts Blackcat ransomware operation, creates decryption tool











Australia
Courts
Data Breach
Hacked
Legal
Qilin
Ransomware
























Bill Toulas   
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.




 Previous Article 
Next Article 



Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment

Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:













Popular Stories






Android game dev’s Google Drive misconfig highlights cloud security risks







The biggest cybersecurity and cyberattack stories of 2023

































Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2024  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT











