





















Android game dev’s Google Drive misconfig highlights cloud security risks































































































News



Featured
Latest







New Black Basta decryptor exploits ransomware flaw to recover files





Malware abuses Google OAuth endpoint to ‘revive’ cookies, hijack accounts





Hospitals ask courts to force cloud storage firm to return stolen data





Microsoft disables MSIX protocol handler abused in malware attacks









 Google Groups is ending support for Usenet to combat spam





Victoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attack





Get started in ethical hacking with $155 off this course bundle deal





The law enforcement operations targeting cybercrime in 2023








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsSecurityAndroid game dev’s Google Drive misconfig highlights cloud security risks







 














Android game dev’s Google Drive misconfig highlights cloud security risks


By Bill Toulas


December 31, 2023
10:09 AM
4




Japanese game developer Ateam has proven that a simple Google Drive configuration mistake can result in the potential but unlikely exposure of sensitive information for nearly one million people over a period of six years and eight months.
The Japanese firm is a mobile games and content creator, encompassing Ateam Entertainment, which has multiple games on Google Play like War of Legions, Dark Summoner, Hatsune Miku – Tap Wonder, and tools like Memory Clear | Game Boost Master, and Good Night's Sleep Alarm.
Earlier this month, Ateam informed users of its apps and services, employees, and business partners that on November 21, 2023, it discovered that it had incorrectly set a Google Drive cloud storage instance to "Anyone on the internet with the link can view" since March 2017.
The insecurely configured Google Drive instance contained 1,369 files with personal information on Ateam customers, Ateam business partners, former and current employees, and even interns and people who applied for a position at the company.
Ateam has confirmed that 935,779 individuals had their data exposed, with 98.9% being customers. For Ateam Entertainment specifically, 735,710 people have been exposed.

Analysis of exposed individuals (Ateam)
The data exposed by this misconfiguration varies depending on the type of relationship each individual had with the company and may include the following:
Full names
Email addresses
Phone numbers
Customer management numbers
Terminal (device) identification numbers
The company says it has seen no concrete evidence of threat actors having stolen the exposed information but urges people to remain vigilant for unsolicited and suspicious communications.
Secure your cloud services
Setting Google Drive to "Anyone with the link can view" makes it viewable only to those with the exact URL, typically reserved for collaboration between people working with non-sensitive data.
If an employee, or someone else with the link, mistakenly exposed it publicly, it could get indexed by search engines and become broadly accessible.
While it's unlikely that anyone found an exposed Google Drive URL on their own, this notification demonstrates a need for companies to properly secure their cloud services to prevent data from being mistakenly exposed.
It is very common for threat actors and researchers to find exposed cloud services, such as databases and storage buckets, and download the data contained in them.
While researchers usually responsibly disclose the exposed data, if threat actors find it, it can lead to bigger problems as they use it to extort companies or sell it to other hackers to use in their own attacks.
In 2017, security researcher Chris Vickery found misconfigured Amazon S3 buckets exposing databases containing 1.8 billion social and forum posts made by users worldwide.
Ten days later, the same researcher discovered another misconfigured S3 bucket that exposed what appeared to be classified information from INSCOM.
While those breaches were responsibly disclosed, other cloud service misconfigurations have led to the data being leaked or sold on hacker forums.
Misconfigured Amazon S3 buckets have become a big enough problem that researchers have released tools that scan for exposed buckets.
The U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) has also released guidance for companies on how to properly secure cloud services.

Related Articles:
Victoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attackThe biggest cybersecurity and cyberattack stories of 2023EasyPark discloses data breach that may impact millions of usersKroll reveals FTX customer info exposed in August data breachPanasonic discloses data breach after December 2022 cyberattack








Android
Ateam
Ateam Entertainment
Data Breach
Games
Google Drive
Japan



















Bill Toulas   
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.



 Previous Article 
Next Article 


Comments


 




Eddiehsyr  - 1 day ago 

 
 


Somebody needs to tell these people about a category of security service known as an "API based CASB".





 




h_b_s  - 1 day ago 

 
 


I hesitate to draw conclusions from my own college experience because it may not be entirely typical. However, if it is then the majority of programmers coming out of coding boot camps, junior colleges and undergraduate programs aren't taught secure coding practices. Even basic programming logic was optional in some programs - it should be a hard requirement for all of them. Programmers aren't learning the basic skills to write secure systems, nor do the hordes of self taught coders have the skills. The tools they use are usually designed for convenience rather than having well thought out secured defaults. That's before it gets to the point where management may have de-prioritized security and privacy in service of greed over selling that data. Long winded way to say that the computer industry is almost universally ill equipped to deal with the modern computing landscape.





 




GT500  - 22 hours ago 

 
 


Misconfigured Google Drive, misconfigured Amazon bucket, misconfigured FTP... I mean, what's next? Misconfigured AI spilling all your company secrets?





 




XSp  - 20 hours ago 

 
 


"Android game dev’s Google Drive misconfig highlights cloud security risks"
more like
"Android game dev’s Google Drive misconfig highlights complete incompetence when it comes to basic security measures from the game dev"





Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:











Popular Stories






The biggest cybersecurity and cyberattack stories of 2023







The law enforcement operations targeting cybercrime in 2023










Latest Downloads




Malwarebytes Anti-Malware
Version: 4.6.7.301
5M+ Downloads




Windows Repair (All In One)
Version: 4.14.1
2M+ Downloads




McAfee Consumer Products Removal tool
Version: NA
440,344 Downloads




AdwCleaner
Version: 8.4.0.0
56M+ Downloads




Everything Desktop Search
Version: 1.4.1.1017
24,641 Downloads



























Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2024  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT











