





















New Black Basta decryptor exploits ransomware flaw to recover files































































































News



Featured
Latest







New Black Basta decryptor exploits ransomware flaw to recover files





Malware abuses Google OAuth endpoint to ‘revive’ cookies, hijack accounts





Hospitals ask courts to force cloud storage firm to return stolen data





Microsoft disables MSIX protocol handler abused in malware attacks









 Google Groups is ending support for Usenet to combat spam





Victoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attack





Get started in ethical hacking with $155 off this course bundle deal





The law enforcement operations targeting cybercrime in 2023








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsSecurityNew Black Basta decryptor exploits ransomware flaw to recover files







 















New Black Basta decryptor exploits ransomware flaw to recover files


By Lawrence Abrams




December 30, 2023
10:14 AM
0





Researchers have created a decryptor that exploits a flaw in Black Basta ransomware, allowing victims to recover their files for free.
The decryptor allows Black Basta victims from November 2022 to this month to potentially recover their files for free. However, BleepingComputer has learned that the Black Basta developers fixed the bug in their encryption routine about a week ago, preventing this decryption technique from being used in newer attacks.
The Black Basta flaw
The 'Black Basta Buster' decryptor comes from Security Research Labs (SRLabs), which found a weakness in the encryption algorithm used by the ransomware gang's encryptors that allows for the discovery of the ChaCha keystream used to XOR encrypt a file.
"Our analysis suggests that files can be recovered if the plaintext of 64 encrypted bytes is known. Whether a file is fully or partially recoverable depends on the size of the file," explains the writeup on the method in SRLabs' GitHub repository.
"Files below the size of 5000 bytes cannot be recovered. For files between 5000 bytes and 1GB in size, full recovery is possible. For files larger than 1GB, the first 5000 bytes will be lost but the remainder can be recovered."
When Black Basta encrypts a file, it XORs the content using a 64-byte keystream created using the XChaCha20 algorithm. However, when using a stream cipher to encrypt a file whose bytes contain only zeros, the XOR key itself is written to the file, allowing retrieval of the encryption key.
Ransomware expert Michael Gillespie told BleepingComputer that Black Basta had a bug where they were reusing the same keystream during encryption, thus causing all 64-byte chunks of data containing only zeros to be converted to the 64-byte symmetric key. This key can then be extracted and used to decrypt the entire file.
This is illustrated by the image below, where two 64-byte chunks of 'zeros' were XORed and now contain the keystream used to encrypt the file.

Black Basta encrypted file showing the encryption keySource: BleepingComputer
While decrypting smaller files may not be possible, larger files like virtual machine disks can usually be decrypted, as they contain a large number of 'zero-byte' sections.
"Virtualised disk images, however have a high chance of being recovered, because the actual partitions and their filesystems tend to start later," explains SRLabs.
"So the ransomware destroyed the MBR or GPT partition table, but tools such as "testdisk" can often recover or re-generate those."
For files that do not contain large zero-byte chunks of data, SRLabs says it may still be possible to recover files if you have an older unencrypted version with similar data.
BleepingComputer has been told that some DFIR companies were aware of the flaw and had been utilizing it for months, decrypting their client's computers without having to pay a ransom.
The Black Basta Buster decryptor
The researchers at SRLabs have released a decryptor called Black Basta Buster that consists of a collection of python scripts that assist you in decrypting files under different scenarios.
However, the researchers created a script called 'decryptauto.py' that attempts to perform automatic retrieval of the key and then use it to decrypt the file.
BleepingComputer encrypted the files on a virtual machine with a Black Basta encryptor from April 2023 to test the decryptor.
When we used the decryptauto.py script, it automatically retrieved the keystream and decrypted our file, as can be seen below.

Black Basta Buster decrypting a fileSource: BleepingComputer
However, as previously stated, this decryptor only works on Black Basta versions since November 2022 and up to a week ago. Furthermore, earlier versions that appended the .basta extension to encrypted files rather than a random file extension cannot be decrypted using this tool.
The decryptor only works on one file at a time, so if you wish to decrypt entire folders, you need to use a shell script or the 'find' command, as shown below. Just make sure to replace the extension and file paths as necessary.

find . -name "*.4xw1woqp0" -exec ../black-basta-buster/decryptauto.py "{}" \;
While new Black Basta victims will no longer be able to recover their files for free, older victims may be more lucky if they were holding out for a decryptor.
Who is Black Basta?
The Black Basta ransomware gang launched its operation in April 2022 and became the newest cybercrime gang conducting double-extortion attacks on corporate victims.
By June 2022, Black Basta had partnered with the QBot malware operation (QakBot) to drop Cobalt Strike for remote access on corporate networks. Black Basta would then use these beacons to spread laterally to other devices on the network, steal data, and ultimately deploy encryptors.
Like other enterprise-targeting ransomware operations, Black Basta created a Linux encryptor to target VMware ESXi virtual machines running on Linux servers.
Researchers have also linked the ransomware gang to the FIN7 hacking group, a financially motivated cybercrime gang also known as Carbanak.
Since its launch, the threat actors have been responsible for a stream of attacks, including those on the Capita, American Dental Association, Sobeys, Knauf, and Yellow Pages Canada.
Recently, the ransomware operation attacked the Toronto Public Library, Canada's largest public library system.

Related Articles:
Vans and North Face owner VF Corp hit by ransomware attackThe Week in Ransomware - December 1st 2023 - Police hits affiliatesBlack Basta ransomware made over $100 million from extortionToronto Public Library confirms data stolen in ransomware attackRansomware attack on indie game maker wiped all player accounts











Black Basta
Decryptor
Encryption
Flaw
Ransomware
XOR
























Lawrence Abrams   
Lawrence Abrams is the owner and Editor in Chief of BleepingComputer.com. Lawrence's area of expertise includes Windows, malware removal, and computer forensics. Lawrence Abrams is a co-author of the Winternals Defragmentation, Recovery, and Administration Field Guide and the technical editor for Rootkits for Dummies.




 Previous Article 
Next Article 



Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment

Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:













Popular Stories






Android game dev’s Google Drive misconfig highlights cloud security risks







The biggest cybersecurity and cyberattack stories of 2023

































Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2024  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT











