





















Hospitals ask courts to force cloud storage firm to return stolen data































































































News



Featured
Latest







New Black Basta decryptor exploits ransomware flaw to recover files





Malware abuses Google OAuth endpoint to ‘revive’ cookies, hijack accounts





Hospitals ask courts to force cloud storage firm to return stolen data





Microsoft disables MSIX protocol handler abused in malware attacks









 Google Groups is ending support for Usenet to combat spam





Victoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attack





Get started in ethical hacking with $155 off this course bundle deal





The law enforcement operations targeting cybercrime in 2023








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsSecurityHospitals ask courts to force cloud storage firm to return stolen data







 














Hospitals ask courts to force cloud storage firm to return stolen data


By Sergiu Gatlan


December 29, 2023
03:20 PM
6




Two not-for-profit hospitals in New York are seeking a court order to retrieve data stolen in an August ransomware attack and now stored on the servers of a Boston cloud storage company.
Carthage Area Hospital and Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center (the attack's victims) have founded the North Star Health Alliance, a collaborative partnership focused on providing healthcare services across the northern New York area.
Together, they serve more than 220,000 residents living in Jefferson, northern Lewis, southern St. Lawrence Counties, Ogdensburg, and St. Lawrence County.
The LockBit ransomware gang claimed responsibility for breaching and stealing sensitive files from their systems in late August, with a press release published by the hospitals one week later saying the incident forced them to redirect patients requiring urging care to other hospitals' emergency departments.
"Carthage Area Hospital and Claxton Medical Center Information Technology (IT) teams continue work to stabilize all systems following a cybersecurity incident discovered by internal security software last Thursday night," the hospitals said.
"All patients with appointments that need to be re-scheduled will be contacted. Any patient with urgent health concern should still call their healthcare provider. Patients with emergency conditions should go to their nearest emergency department."
While investigating the incident with the FBI's help, the hospitals found that the data stolen by Lockbit's affiliates (including patients' names, addresses, dates of birth, financial information, social security numbers, health insurance, and other personally identifying and protected health information) is now stored on the servers of Wasabi Technologies, a cloud storage company in Boston, Massachusets.
Lawsuit to recover stolen PII and health data
In a bid to recover the stolen data from Wasabi's servers, the hospitals have now taken legal action against the cybercriminals who stole the files, asking the court to order Wasabi to return the stolen data to the North Star Health Alliance hospitals and issue an order requiring the ransomware group to destroy all the copies they made.
"So the best option explored by our legal team and working with the FBI is actually going after that company to get our secluded data so that we can be sure what information was leaked," North Star Health Alliance CEO Richard Duvall told 7News.
According to court documents, the cloud storage firm has already provided the FBI with copies of the data requested by the hospitals.
"The Hospital Group requires injunctive relief against the Defendants and other entities, preventing the access, transfer or duplication of the Stolen Data and requiring that, after the Stolen Data is returned to the Hospital Group, all other copies of the Stolen Data be destroyed," the complaint reads.
"Upon Information and belief, Wasabi has already provided copies of the stolen data to the FBI."
LockBit has also disrupted emergency care at three German hospitals on Christmas Eve, forcing them to divert emergency cases elsewhere, resulting in potential critical delays. Another LockBit affiliate attacked the Hospital for Sick Children (SickKids) in Toronto one week before last Christmas, causing diagnostic and treatment delays.
The LockBit ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) operation was first spotted in September 2019, with its victim list including the Continental automotive giant, the UK Royal Mail, the City of Oakland, and the Italian Internal Revenue Service.
A joint advisory published in June by cybersecurity authorities worldwide revealed that this ransomware gang has extorted at least $91 million from U.S. organizations following at least 1,700 attacks since 2020.

Related Articles:
Norton Healthcare discloses data breach after May ransomware attackThe Week in Ransomware - December 29th 2023 - LockBit targets hospitalsLockbit ransomware disrupts emergency care at German hospitalsNissan Australia cyberattack claimed by Akira ransomware gangHealthcare software provider data breach impacts 2.7 million








Data Theft
Hospital
Lawsuits
New York
Ransomware
USA



















Sergiu Gatlan   
Sergiu has covered cybersecurity, technology, and other news beats for more than a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.



 Previous Article 
Next Article 


Comments


 




thatirish  - 3 days ago 

 
 


Looks like some of these malware gangs do not have any problems putting people's lives in danger just as long as they get their ransom. Unfortunately it's a game of cat and mouse with law enforcement catching these people. There is no golden bullet.





 




Discontinuation  - 3 days ago 

 
 


It is similar to robo calls. No law enforcement until Senate and Congress started getting them. If ramsomware criminals targeted them problem would be solved in 30 days.





 




Creigh Chlopek  - 2 days ago 

 
 


enforcement is no simple matter. this case was a very rare exception in that a they could identify the exact cloud server having the data and that that cloud server was inside the United States and under its jurisdiction. The vast majority of these ransomware situations involve cloud storage that is international or even distributed between multiple international data server farms. there is no easy money trail to follow that is specifically why these attacks always demand payment with cryptocurrency. that being said anytime an attack is not a complete victory for the bad actors is ultimately beneficial. 
Catching and stopping them is not as likely to bring a sollution as making them work hard and never get their candy. Because of the international situation even when you have someone proverbially caught red-handed... with their hand in the cookie jar.. smoking gun in their hand... or even bragging about it publicly; they're in a jurisdiction that you can't do anything to reach them in... or multiple players in multiple jurisdictions you can't do anything to reach them in. The only solution I think will have impact is putting preventives and countermeasures in place that increasingly make the bad actor put in the effort and not get a return on their investment. 





 




Creigh Chlopek  - 2 days ago 

 
 


1





 




Wannabetech1  - 22 hours ago 

 
 


So what happens to the "not-for-profits" ( I always laugh at that phrase) whose systems the data was stolen from? Yeah I know; nothing.





 




h_b_s  - 21 hours ago 

 
 


Hardly. Depends on the details in how they lost the data. But in any case, there won't be no consequences. The public only sees what the news services think is sensationalist enough to report on for advertising dollars. The reality is no ransom ware victim ever gets away unscathed, especially when there are regulations on the data in play (HIPAA + whatever state regulations are relevant) and whatever cyber incident insurance they may have. If they were negligent in handling the data, they're equally in trouble. If they weren't then they're still going to have financial consequences, just perhaps not regulatory in nature.
One of these days, people are going to get harmed or killed as a result of these breaches and LEOs are going to be out for these gangs' blood from that point on.





Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:











Popular Stories






Android game dev’s Google Drive misconfig highlights cloud security risks







The biggest cybersecurity and cyberattack stories of 2023










Latest Downloads




Malwarebytes Anti-Malware
Version: 4.6.7.301
5M+ Downloads




Windows Repair (All In One)
Version: 4.14.1
2M+ Downloads




McAfee Consumer Products Removal tool
Version: NA
440,344 Downloads




AdwCleaner
Version: 8.4.0.0
56M+ Downloads




Everything Desktop Search
Version: 1.4.1.1017
24,641 Downloads



























Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2024  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT











