





















Steam game mod breached to push password-stealing malware































































































News



Featured
Latest







New Black Basta decryptor exploits ransomware flaw to recover files





Malware abuses Google OAuth endpoint to ‘revive’ cookies, hijack accounts





Hospitals ask courts to force cloud storage firm to return stolen data





Microsoft disables MSIX protocol handler abused in malware attacks









 Google Groups is ending support for Usenet to combat spam





Victoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attack





Get started in ethical hacking with $155 off this course bundle deal





The law enforcement operations targeting cybercrime in 2023








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsSecuritySteam game mod breached to push password-stealing malware







 















Steam game mod breached to push password-stealing malware


By Sergiu Gatlan




December 28, 2023
04:19 PM
0





Downfall, a fan expansion for the popular Slay the Spire indie strategy game, was breached on Christmas Day to push Epsilon information stealer malware using the Steam update system.
As developer Michael Mayhem told BleepingComputer, the compromised package is the prepackaged standalone modified version of the original game and not a mod installed via Steam Workshop.
"One of our devices was hit with malware that did not get flagged or blocked by the security we had running on it. As far as I currently know, it was not a password-stealing malware as 2FA did not trigger or stop this, and of the accounts compromised, all were under different e-mail addresses (and none of those addresses themselves were stolen)," Mayhem told BleepingComputer, saying that he's "reluctant to state anything with absolute certainty" until he obtains a professional assessment.
"This has led us to believe it was a token hijack instead (as suggested to us by a security professional), designed specifically to hijack Steam and use it to upload and Discord to prevent warning users, but that at the moment is just speculation."
The attackers compromised one of Downfall's developers' Steam and Discord accounts, allowing them to gain control of the mod's Steam account.
"The breach window was roughly 1:30 PM-2:30 PM Eastern (1830-1930 UTC+0) on 12/25. If you did launch Downfall on 12/25 during the breach window and got a Unity library installer popup, please continue to read. You may be also at risk. The security breach allowed a malicious upload to replace the Downfall packaged game," Mayhem said in a statement published on Wednesday.
Once installed on a compromised computer, the malware will collect cookies and saved passwords and credit cards from web browsers (Google Chrome, Yandex, Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox, Brave, Vivaldi), as well as Steam and Discord info.
It will also look for documents containing 'password' in the filenames and for more credentials, including the local Windows login and Telegram.

Epsilon malware harvesting credentials (Any.run)
​Downfall users are advised to change all important passwords, especially those for accounts not protected by 2FA (2-factor authentification).
Users who received the malicious update reported that the malware would install itself as a Windows Boot Manager application in the AppData folder or as UnityLibManager in the /AppData/Roaming folder.
Epsilon Stealer is an information-stealing malware sold via Telegram and Discord to other threat actors. It is commonly used to target gamers on Discord by tricking them into installing the malware under the guise of testing a new game for bugs in exchange for payment. 
However, after the game is installed, it also deploys the malware which runs in the background and steals the user's passwords, credit card details, and authentication cookies.
The stolen information is either used by the threat actors to breach further accounts or sold on dark web marketplaces.
According to VirusTotal data, it's likely that the threat actor behind this attack has also targeted other games and game developers.

Other files containing the same info-stealing malware (VirusTotal)
Steam tightens security
In October, Valve announced that it now requires SMS-based security checks from game developers pushing an update on the default release branch on Steam.
The decision was taken in response to an increasing number of compromised Steamworks accounts being used to upload malicious game builds to infect players with malware starting in late August.
"As part of a security update, any Steamworks account setting builds live on the default/public branch of a released app will need to have a phone number associated with their account so that Steam can text you a confirmation code before continuing," Valve said in October.
"The same will be true for any Steamworks account that needs to add new users. This change will go live on October 24, 2023, so be sure to add a phone number to your account now. We also plan on adding this requirement for other Steamworks actions in the future."
Update 12/28/23: The email account of the developer was not breached.

Related Articles:
Malware abuses Google OAuth endpoint to ‘revive’ cookies, hijack accountsRhadamanthys Stealer malware evolves with more powerful featuresAtomic Stealer malware strikes macOS via fake browser updatesMalware dev says they can revive expired Google auth cookiesGoogle ads push malicious CPU-Z app from fake Windows news site











Epsilon Stealer
Game Mod
Information Stealer
Malware
Slay the Spire
Slay the Spire Downfall
Steam
























Sergiu Gatlan   
Sergiu has covered cybersecurity, technology, and other news beats for more than a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.




 Previous Article 
Next Article 



Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment

Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:













Popular Stories






Android game dev’s Google Drive misconfig highlights cloud security risks







The biggest cybersecurity and cyberattack stories of 2023

































Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2024  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT











