





















Xerox says subsidiary XBS U.S. breached after ransomware gang leaks data






























































































News



Featured
Latest







New Black Basta decryptor exploits ransomware flaw to recover files





Malware abuses Google OAuth endpoint to ‘revive’ cookies, hijack accounts





Hospitals ask courts to force cloud storage firm to return stolen data





Microsoft disables MSIX protocol handler abused in malware attacks









Xerox says subsidiary XBS U.S. breached after ransomware gang leaks data





 Google Groups is ending support for Usenet to combat spam





Victoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attack





Get started in ethical hacking with $155 off this course bundle deal








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsSecurityXerox says subsidiary XBS U.S. breached after ransomware gang leaks data







 















Xerox says subsidiary XBS U.S. breached after ransomware gang leaks data


By Bill Toulas




January 2, 2024
12:29 PM
0





The U.S. division of Xerox Business Solutions (XBS) has been compromised by hackers with a limited amount of personal information possibly exposed, according to a statement by the parent company, Xerox Corporation.
XBS specializes in document technology and services, providing various products, including printers, copiers, digital printing systems, and associated consultation and supply services.
INC Ransom ransomware gang added the corporation to its extortion portal on December 29, claiming to have stolen sensitive data and confidential documents from its systems.
After contacting Xerox about the security incident, the company shared a statement with BleepingComputer over the weekend.
"Recently, Xerox's subsidiary, Xerox Business Solutions, which was detected and contained by Xerox cybersecurity personnel," Xerox said in a statement shared with BleepingComputer.
"The event was limited to XBS U.S. We are actively working with third-party cybersecurity experts to conduct a thorough investigation into this incident and are taking necessary steps to further secure the XBS IT environment."
The company says that the attack has had no impact on the Xerox's or XBS' operations. However, a preliminary investigation has indicated that limited personal information was exposed in the attack.
The data samples shared on the INC Ransom data leak site include email communications (with content and addresses exposed), payment details, invoices, filled-out request forms, and purchase orders.

Xerox listed on the INC Ransom data leak siteSource: @omvapt
The threat actors may hold data on multiple XBS clients, partners, and employees, but the extent of the breach remains unknown at this time.
Xerox assures it will notify all affected individuals confirmed to have been impacted by this incident.
BleepingComputer has noticed that the Xerox entry has been removed from INC Ransom's leak portal for unknown reasons, usually indicative of resumed negotiations between a victim and the threat actors.
Xerox had previously suffered a ransomware attack in the summer of 2020, when the Maze ransomware group added the company to its list of victims, threatening to publish over 100GB of stolen data.

Related Articles:
Integris Health patients get extortion emails after cyberattackVictoria court recordings exposed in reported ransomware attackThe biggest cybersecurity and cyberattack stories of 2023Panasonic discloses data breach after December 2022 cyberattackNissan Australia cyberattack claimed by Akira ransomware gang











Cyberattack
Data Breach
INC Ransomware
Ransomware
XBS US
Xerox
























Bill Toulas   
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.




 Previous Article 



Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment

Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:













Popular Stories






Android game dev’s Google Drive misconfig highlights cloud security risks







The biggest cybersecurity and cyberattack stories of 2023

































Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2024  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT











