





















Linux kernel impacted by new SLUBStick cross-cache attack































































































News



Featured
Latest







Hackers abuse free TryCloudflare to deliver remote access malware





StackExchange abused to spread malicious PyPi packages as answers





Microsoft says massive Azure outage was caused by DDoS attack





FBI warns of scammers posing as crypto exchange employees









Linux kernel impacted by new SLUBStick cross-cache attack





Hackers breach ISP to poison software updates with malware





Aspiring IT professionals can start with this $80 Microsoft course bundle





US sues TikTok for violating children privacy protection laws








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsSecurityLinux kernel impacted by new SLUBStick cross-cache attack







 














Linux kernel impacted by new SLUBStick cross-cache attack


By Bill Toulas


August 3, 2024
11:17 AM
1




A novel Linux Kernel cross-cache attack named SLUBStick has a 99% success in converting a limited heap vulnerability into an arbitrary memory read-and-write capability, letting the researchers elevate privileges or escape containers.
The discovery comes from a team of researchers from the Graz University of Technology who demonstrated the attack on Linux kernel versions 5.9 and 6.2 (latest) using nine existing CVEs in both 32-bit and 64-bit systems, indicating high versatility.
Additionally, the attack worked with all modern kernel defenses like Supervisor Mode Execution Prevention (SMEP),  Supervisor Mode Access Prevention (SMAP), and Kernel Address Space Layout Randomization (KASLR) active.
SLUBStick will be presented in detail at the upcoming Usenix Security Symposium conference later this month. The researchers will showcase privilege escalation and container escape in the latest Linux with state-of-the-art defenses enabled.
In the meantime, the published technical paper contains all the details about the attack and the potential exploitation scenarios.
SLUBStick details
One way the Linux kernel manages memory efficiently and securely is by allocating and de-allocating memory chunks, called "slabs," for different types of data structures.
Flaws in this memory management process may allow attackers to corrupt or manipulate data structures, called cross-cache attacks. However, these are effective roughly 40% of the time and typically lead to system crashes sooner or later.
SLUBStick exploits a heap vulnerability, such as a double-free, user-after-free, or out-of-bounds write, to manipulate the memory allocation process.

CVEs successfully used in the researchers' experimentsSource: stefangast.eu
Next, it uses a timing side channel to determine the exact moment of memory chunk allocation/deallocation, allowing the attacker to predict and control memory reuse.
Using this timing information raises the success of the cross-change exploitation to 99%, making SLUBStick very practical.

Measured success ratesSource: stefangast.eu
The conversion of the heap flaw into arbitrary memory read-and-write primitive is done in three steps:
Free specific memory chunks and wait for the kernel to reuse them.
Reallocate these chunks in a controlled manner, ensuring they get repurposed for critical data structures like page tables.
Once reclaimed, the attacker overwrites the page table entries, getting the ability to read and write any memory location.

SLUBStick overviewSource: stefangast.eu
Real-world impact
As with most attacks involving a side channel, SLUBStick requires local access on the target machine with code execution capabilities. Furthermore, the attack requires the presence of a heap vulnerability in the Linux kernel, which will then be used to gain read and write access to the memory.
While this may make the attack appear impractical, it does introduce some benefits to attackers.
Even for attackers with code execution capabilities, SLUBStick provides the ability to achieve privilege escalation, bypass kernel defenses, perform container escapes, or use it as part of a complex attack chain.
Privilege escalation can be used to elevate privileges to root, allowing unlimited operations, while container escape can be used to break from sandboxed environments and access the host system.
Additionally, in the post-exploitation phase, SLUBStick could modify kernel structures or hooks to maintain persistence, making malware harder for defenders to detect.

Tampering with '/etc/passwd' dataSource: stefangast.eu
Those who want to dive deeper into SLUBStick and experiment with the exploits used by the Graz University researchers can find them in the researcher's GitHub repository.

Related Articles:
New Play ransomware Linux version targets VMware ESXi VMsRCE bug in widely used Ghostscript library now exploited in attacksLatest Intel CPUs impacted by new Indirector side-channel attackNew regreSSHion OpenSSH RCE bug gives root on Linux serversSnowblind malware abuses Android security feature to bypass security








Cross-Cache Attack
Linux
Linux Kernel
Side-channel attack
SLUBStick



















Bill Toulas   
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.



 Previous Article 
Next Article 


Comments


 




h_b_s  - 13 hours ago 

 
 


Er... the 'latest' Linux stable kernel is 6.10.x while the latest Long Term Service (LTS) is 6.6.x. Kernel version 6.2 is over 2 years old.
The important bit of information provided in the git hub repository, but omitted in the article, is that this is against Ubuntu 22.04 (2 years old - 24.04 is the current LTS) and they apparently didn't bother to check it against other Linux distributions (RHEL, Rocky, Fedora, Debian, etc - important to know), nor the mainline unaltered kernels. Nearly all Linux distros heavily modify the kernel included in their releases. Incomplete and lazy effort. Standard development procedure is to verify if a bug exists in the most current released versions before making a to-do about it.





Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:











Popular Stories






Google Chrome warns uBlock Origin may soon be disabled







Hackers breach ISP to poison software updates with malware

































Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2024  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT











