





















Google Chrome warns uBlock Origin may soon be disabled
































































































News



Featured
Latest







Hackers abuse free TryCloudflare to deliver remote access malware





StackExchange abused to spread malicious PyPi packages as answers





Microsoft says massive Azure outage was caused by DDoS attack





FBI warns of scammers posing as crypto exchange employees









Linux kernel impacted by new SLUBStick cross-cache attack





Hackers breach ISP to poison software updates with malware





Aspiring IT professionals can start with this $80 Microsoft course bundle





US sues TikTok for violating children privacy protection laws








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsGoogleGoogle Chrome warns uBlock Origin may soon be disabled







 














Google Chrome warns uBlock Origin may soon be disabled


By Sergiu Gatlan


August 2, 2024
04:05 PM
20




Google Chrome is now encouraging uBlock Origin users who have updated to the latest version to switch to other ad blockers before Manifest v2 extensions are disabled.
As uBlock Origin lead developer and maintainer Raymond Hill explained on Friday, this is the result of Google deprecating support for the Manifest v2 (MV2) extensions platform in favor of Manifest v3 (MV3).
"uBO is a Manifest v2 extension, hence the warning in your Google Chrome browser. There is no Manifest v3 version of uBO, hence the browser will suggest alternative extensions as a replacement for uBO," Hill explained.
"uBO Lite (uBOL) is a pared-down version of uBO with a best effort at converting filter lists used by uBO into a Manifest v3-compliant approach, with a focus on reliability and efficiency as has been the case with uBO since first published in June 2014."
Google Chrome users are also warned to remove or replace the uBlock Origin ad blocker with similar extensions.
A "Find alternative" link also sends them to this Chrome Web Store page, which advises them to switch to uBO Lite, Adblock Plus, Stands AdBlocker, or Ghostery.

Google Chrome uBlock Origin MV3 warning (BleepingComputer)
​Warning showing up next to all MV3 extensions
However, uBlock Origin users aren't the only ones seeing this warning banner, as it's now displayed on the chrome://extensions page for all MV2 extensions after updating to Chrome version 127. Users in the Chrome Beta, Dev, and Canary channels have been seeing these warnings since June 3, 2024.
Over the coming months, Google will disable extensions that have remained on the MV2 platform and ask users to choose an MV3 alternative.
While users will still be able to re-enable their MV2 extensions temporarily, this option will eventually be removed.
"This will be followed gradually in the coming months by the disabling of those extensions. Users will be directed to the Chrome Web Store, where they will be recommended Manifest V3 alternatives for their disabled extension," Google explains in the MV2 deprecation timeline.
"For a short time after the extensions are disabled, users will still be able to turn their Manifest V2 extensions back on, but over time, this toggle will go away as well."
The company adds that these changes will be rolled out to all users in the Chrome Stable channel over the coming months, with the goal of completing the transition to the MV3 standard by the start of 2025.
Enterprise MV2 deprecation starting in June 2025
Enterprises using the ExtensionManifestV2Availability policy, which enables them to control Manifest v2 extension availability on Linux, Mac, Windows, and ChromeOS, will be exempt from any browser changes until June 2025, when the Chrome MV2 deprecation enterprise rollout begins.
Google announced the rollout of the Manifest V3 extensions platform with the release of Chrome 88 in December 2020.
This new framework also introduced major technical challenges for extension developers, especially for those requiring greater control over web browser functions such as ad blockers, forcing them to create new extensions with limited capabilities (like Hill's uBlock Origin Lite).
uBlock Origin's developer has also created a FAQ explaining the differences between the Manifest V2 extension and the new Lite Manifest V3 version.

Related Articles:
Google Chrome bug breaks drag and drop from Downloads bubbleGoogle Chrome adds app-bound encryption to block infostealer malwareGoogle fixes Chrome Password Manager bug that hides credentialsGoogle Chrome now asks for passwords to scan protected archivesGet a VPN, DNS, and ad blocker for 5 years for $59.99 in this AdGuard deal








Ad Blocker
Chrome Extension Manifest V3
Google Chrome
uBlock Origin



















Sergiu Gatlan   
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.



 Previous Article 
Next Article 


Comments


 




deltasierra  - 1 day ago 

 
 


Looks like Microsoft is either following the same schedule (since it's a decision of the Chromium project) or possibly allowing for slightly more time, especially for enterprises.https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/developer-guide/manifest-v3
Hard to tell as some aspects are still TBD (to be determined).





 




GT500  - 1 day ago 

 
 


Vivaldi is maintaining Manifest V2 support for now, although I don't think they have committed to any specific long-term plans beyond supporting it as long as they think it's feasible.





 




Rapture68  - 1 day ago 

 
 


Not only uBlock Origin but also LastPass is on the list, they don’t say much about Google Chrome. I will not use Google Chrome anymore. I use Edge but we’ll see if they keep these apps, otherwise I’ll switch back to Firefox again. 
Guess many will switch to Firefox instead. 





 




JL2210  - 1 day ago 

 
 


This change prompted me to switch to Firefox on both desktop and mobile. uBlock Origin is a must-have





 




Val121510  - 1 day ago 

 
 


Looks like the day I switch from chrome to Firefox is approaching. Ublock is the one thing that is non-negotiable thing that can't be missing from my browser. 
I've tried to switch to Firefox a while back but I had a few issues, it doesn't have all of the extensions I need and doesn't have a good alternative with similar functionality. 
Examples are tab groups, which apparently they're trying to add, tab suspenders exist but I can't use ctrl, shift or alt for the hotkeys and I haven't been able to figure out any working hotkey combos, and there is no way to remove the existing hotkeys that interfere with this, and no extension saves the current timestamp of the YouTube video you're watching, this is my biggest use case scenario as I like having lots of YouTube tabs open, but regularly watch a bit and then stop and do something else. I also need a program that saves all open tabs, doesn't work too well on Firefox as it doesn't let you save suspended tabs. 
The biggest issue is the password manager, I want to be able to sync passwords across my PC browser, my phone browser and also my phone's auto fill. Firefox has options for android auto fill but it doesn't work great and doesn't use existing saved passwords for within apps. 





 




richardnpaul  - 1 day ago 

 
 


"Examples are tab groups, which apparently they're trying to add, tab suspenders exist but I can't use ctrl, shift or alt for the hotkeys and I haven't been able to figure out any working hotkey combos, and there is no way to remove the existing hotkeys that interfere with this, and no extension saves the current timestamp of the YouTube video you're watching, this is my biggest use case scenario as I like having lots of YouTube tabs open, but regularly watch a bit and then stop and do something else. I also need a program that saves all open tabs, doesn't work too well on Firefox as it doesn't let you save suspended tabs. 
The biggest issue is the password manager, I want to be able to sync passwords across my PC browser, my phone browser and also my phone's auto fill. Firefox has options for android auto fill but it doesn't work great and doesn't use existing saved passwords for within apps. "
Look at panorama tab groups in Firefox's addons, this came from the original code for panorama which was Firefox's tab grouping feature introduced in v4, tab grouping originated in Firefox long before it appeared in Chrome. There are lots of other extensions that offer tab grouping in Firefox.
I don't know about YouTube, but usually I come back to it and it's where I left off. Of course you have to change the defaults so that Firefox keeps your session. There are extensions for saving your session and versions it. I can't recall what I'm using right now.
On the password manager front you'd be better served with something like Bitwarden, which is free for almost all the features but things like saving and auto copying 2FA codes require you to pay $10 per year for the premium subscription (yes that's per year so less than a dollar a month). Firefox for Android does have extensions and Bitwarden is one of those that are available though I just tend to use the Mobile app for filling passwords in any browser. 





 




danwat1234  - 1 day ago 

 
 


But what if we disable Chrome browser updates to not go beyond version 127? Will manifest V2 continue to work indefinitely on these older versions of Chrome?





 




Windows10User  - 1 day ago 

 
 


That's a horrible idea. Security issues on browers appear all the time, your browser should be the first thing you update.
If you're annoyed at this change, switch browsers. Firefox is a good option while if you want to remain on Chormium, Brave and Vivaldi are supporting MV2 for the foreseeable future.





 




eric79x  - 1 day ago 

 
 


"That's a horrible idea. Security issues on browers appear all the time, your browser should be the first thing you update.
If you're annoyed at this change, switch browsers. Firefox is a good option while if you want to remain on Chormium, Brave and Vivaldi are supporting MV2 for the foreseeable future."
THANK YOU. I have been trying to find out if of what all other Chromium based browsers this will affect. 





 




Sssred  - 1 day ago 

 
 


At this point just not gonna use Chrome, and use opera instead.





 




Windows10User  - 1 day ago 

 
 


Oprea is based on Chromium so is still affected by the change 





 




Winston2021  - 3 hours ago 

 
 


"Oprea is based on Chromium so is still affected by the change "
Basing so many browsers on Chromium is almost as dumb as running the world with PCs relying on a single cloud security firm's product.
BTW, I'm sure they wouldn't misuse this:
How the CIA made Google
Jan 22, 2015
INSURGE INTELLIGENCE, a new crowd-funded investigative journalism project, breaks the exclusive story of how the United States intelligence community funded, nurtured and incubated Google as part of a drive to dominate the world through control of information. Seed-funded by the NSA and CIA, Google was merely the first among a plethora of private sector start-ups co-opted by US intelligence to retain ‘information superiority.’





 




eric79x  - 1 day ago 

 
 


I have seen articles like this for months. NONE of them even mention Chromium, Edge, or any other browser based on Chromium.
I am guessing they are baking this change into Chromium? 
Sergiu Gatlan can you look into this? If they're baking this change into Chromium, this will affect every Chromium based browser, like Edge, Brave, Opera, Vivaldi, and lots of other lesser known browsers. 





 




eric79x  - 1 day ago 

 
 


And one more thing. Why are we letting google control browser standards? Chrome is junk, but people still cling so hard to it.
"too big to fail" at this point?
This is stupid. We keep letting one, or a small handful, of these companies dictate how everything is on the web, and just tech in general.
We just accept it and do as we're told. "You WILL have advertisement!"
"You WILL give us all your data and personal info, so we can attempt to manipulate you with it." "You WILL not change your phone battery" "You WILL not be able to upgrade RAM in your laptop."
kinda starting to see the appeal of the Amish style.... 





 




ORLOX  - 19 hours ago 

 
 


<p>So... On pc you can use Firefox or whatever it doesn&#39;t really matter. But what do i use on mobile? I&#39;m currently using Kiwi, which is the only mobile browser that i have found that supports any extension. But it is chromium based, so i can&#39;t use it forever.</p>





 




SuperSapien64  - 16 hours ago 

 
 


Its always a good idea to have at least two web browsers installed on your device just in case.
But I hope this means that Firefox will see an increase in users.





 




b1k3rdude  - 10 hours ago 

 
 


I switched to Thorium as my secondary browser, from Chromium a little while back. But as it uses the same code base, it might be long beforeit too is effected. So will look at alternative ad-blockers or browsers when that happens.
FF is still the main weapon of choice.





 




Elastoer  - 9 hours ago 

 
 


I use an OS-level ad blocker, which blocks ads regardless of what browser I use.





 




ORLOX  - 2 hours ago 

 
 


"I use an OS-level ad blocker, which blocks ads regardless of what browser I use."
Share the name, pal.





 




BryanP1968  - 2 hours ago 

 
 


Which OS level ad blocker do you use?





Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:











Popular Stories






Hackers breach ISP to poison software updates with malware







CrowdStrike sued by investors over massive global IT outage










Latest Downloads




AdwCleaner
Version: 8.4.2.0
56M+ Downloads




Malwarebytes Anti-Malware
Version: 5.1.6.117
5M+ Downloads




Speccy
Version: 1.33.075
54,717 Downloads




PuTTY
Version: 0.81
42,385 Downloads




BitDefender Uninstall Tool
Version: NA
103,644 Downloads



























Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2024  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT











