





















Fake AI editor ads on Facebook push password-stealing malware
































































































News



Featured
Latest







Hackers abuse free TryCloudflare to deliver remote access malware





StackExchange abused to spread malicious PyPi packages as answers





Microsoft says massive Azure outage was caused by DDoS attack





FBI warns of scammers posing as crypto exchange employees









Linux kernel impacted by new SLUBStick cross-cache attack





Hackers breach ISP to poison software updates with malware





Aspiring IT professionals can start with this $80 Microsoft course bundle





US sues TikTok for violating children privacy protection laws








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsSecurityFake AI editor ads on Facebook push password-stealing malware







 














Fake AI editor ads on Facebook push password-stealing malware


By Sergiu Gatlan


August 2, 2024
02:32 PM
1




Image: Midjourney​A Facebook malvertising campaign targets users searching for AI image editing tools and steals their credentials by tricking them into installing fake apps that mimic legitimate software.
The attackers exploit the popularity of AI-driven image-generation tools by creating malicious websites that closely resemble legitimate services and trick potential victims into infecting themselves with information stealer malware, as Trend Micro researchers who analyzed the campaign found.
The attacks start with phishing messages sent to Facebook page owners or administrators, which will send them to fake account protection pages designed to trick them into providing their login information.
After stealing their credentials, the threat actors hijack their accounts, take control of their pages, publish malicious social media posts, and promote them via paid advertising.
"We discovered a malvertising campaign involving a threat actor that steals social media pages (typically related to photography), changing their names to make them seem connected to popular AI photo editors," said Trend Micro threat researcher Jaromir Horejsi.
"The threat actor then creates malicious posts with links to fake websites made to resemble the actual website of the legitimate photo editor. To increase traffic, the perpetrator then boosts the malicious posts via paid ads."

Fake AI photo editor website (Trend Micro)
​Facebook users who click the URL promoted in the malicious ad are sent to a fake web page impersonating legitimate AI photo editing and generating software, where they are prompted to download and install a software package.
However, instead of AI image editing software, the victims install the legitimate ITarian remote desktop tool configured to launch a downloader that automatically deploys the Lumma Stealer malware.
The malware then quietly infiltrates their system, allowing the attackers to collect and exfiltrate sensitive information like credentials, cryptocurrency wallet files, browser data, and password manager databases.
This data is later sold to other cybercriminals or used by the attackers to compromise the victims' online accounts, steal their money, and promote further scams.

Attack flow (Trend Micro)
"Users should enable multi-factor authentication (MFA) on all social media accounts to add an extra layer of protection against unauthorized access," Horejsi advised.
"Organizations should educate their employees on the dangers of phishing attacks and how to recognize suspicious messages and links. Users should always verify the legitimacy of links, especially those asking for personal information or login credentials."
In April, a similar Facebook malvertising campaign promoted a malicious page impersonating Midjourney to target almost 1.2 million users with the Rilide Stealer Chrome browser extension.

Related Articles:
Google ads push fake Google Authenticator site installing malwareFake CrowdStrike repair manual pushes new infostealer malwareInfostealer malware logs used to identify child abuse website membersNew Unfurling Hemlock threat actor floods systems with malwareFake Google Chrome errors trick you into running malicious PowerShell scripts








AI
Data Theft
Facebook
Info Stealer
Information Stealer
Malvertising
Malware



















Sergiu Gatlan   
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.



 Previous Article 
Next Article 


Comments


 




b1k3rdude  - 10 hours ago 

 
 


And this is WHY we need browser/network ad-blockers.





Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:











Popular Stories






Google Chrome warns uBlock Origin may soon be disabled







Hackers breach ISP to poison software updates with malware

































Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2024  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT











