





















Cyberattack on IT provider CTS impacts dozens of UK law firms

































































































News



Featured
Latest







Windows Hello auth bypassed on Microsoft, Dell, Lenovo laptops





Cyberattack on IT provider CTS impacts dozens of UK law firms





UK and South Korea: Hackers use zero-day in supply-chain attack





Malware dev says they can revive expired Google auth cookies









Leveraging Wazuh to combat insider threats





Google Drive users angry over losing months of stored data





Learn Azure at your own pace with $77 off this exam prep bundle





New Rust-based SysJoker backdoor linked to Hamas hackers








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsSecurityCyberattack on IT provider CTS impacts dozens of UK law firms







 















Cyberattack on IT provider CTS impacts dozens of UK law firms


By Sergiu Gatlan




November 24, 2023
12:13 PM
0





A cyberattack on CTS, a leading managed service provider (MSP) for law firms and other organizations in the UK legal sector, is behind a major outage impacting numerous law firms and home buyers in the country since Wednesday.
"We are experiencing a service outage which has impacted a portion of the services we deliver to some of our clients. The outage was caused by a cyber-incident," the UK IT services provider said in a statement published on Friday.
"We are working closely with a leading global cyber forensics firm to help us with an urgent investigation into the incident and to assist us in service restoration."
The company is working on bringing back online services impacted following the cyberattack. Still, it can't provide a timeline for when the outage will be resolved and all affected systems restored.
CTS also provides customers with more detailed information on the outage and the measures it's taking in response to the cyberattack via a dedicated communications list.
"Whilst we are confident that we will be able to restore services, we are unable to give a precise timeline for full restoration," CTS added.
"We will continue to communicate directly with those of our clients which are impacted by the service outage, providing regular updates on the status of our work to restore services and our investigations into the incident."
A spokesperson for the UK's Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) told BleepingComputer that CTS hasn't yet reported a breach after the attack.
"We don’t appear to have received a breach report matching the one you described. As you’ll be aware, organisations have 72 hours from when they became aware of a breach to report to the ICO, and not all breaches need to be reported," the ICO spokesperson said.
After the article was published, CTS Director of Marketing Natalie Kissack told BleepingComputer that the company had contacted the ICO.
Dozens of customers potentially affected
While CTS has yet to reveal the number of impacted customers or the nature of the attack, information shared so far points to a ransomware attack.
Local media reports that between 80 and 200 law firms could have been affected based on estimates shared by CTS clients.
Throughout the week, people have been unable to buy or sell properties due to outages, with no clear information on when the issue will be resolved.
O'Neil Patient, one of CTS' clients, told Property Industry Eye that the outage "is impacting a number of organisations across the sector, as our provider is a specialist in secure legal systems for many law firms and barrister's chambers."
"There is no evidence to suggest that any data integrity has been compromised, and we will not be bringing our systems back online until we have all the assurances that it is safe to do so. This outage has unfortunately impacted our customers, particularly those who were due to complete on a new home," O'Neil Patient added.
As an MSP, CTS also provides cyber protection services, including cyberattack detection and response, email and network security, and employee security awareness training.
The UK National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) warned in January that using an MSP's services increases the attack surface, especially since they're a "juicy target" for attackers as they manage the resources of large numbers of customers.
"Publications from Microsoft and N-able highlight that this real threat uses techniques that are relatively unchanged from those documented by PWC in 2017, and is part of a trend that we expect to continue," UK's NCSC said.
"We would hope that such infrastructure is well-defended, and MSPs use different devices and accounts for administrative functions than are used for email and browsing the web."
A CTS spokesperson declined to comment outside of the statement published on the company's website.

Related Articles:
British Library knocked offline by weekend cyberattackBritish Library: Ongoing outage caused by ransomware attackMortgage giant Mr. Cooper hit by cyberattack impacting IT systemsAmerican Family Insurance confirms cyberattack is behind IT outagesCyberattack on health services provider impacts 5 Canadian hospitals











Cyberattack
Law Firm
MSP
Outage
UK
United Kingdom
























Sergiu Gatlan   
Sergiu has covered cybersecurity, technology, and other news beats for more than a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.




 Previous Article 
Next Article 



Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment

Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:













Popular Stories






General Electric investigates claims of cyber attack, data theft







Atomic Stealer malware strikes macOS via fake browser updates

































Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2023  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT















