





















Black Friday 2023: Get 25% off the Zero2Automated malware analysis course 

































































































News



Featured
Latest







Windows Hello auth bypassed on Microsoft, Dell, Lenovo laptops





Cyberattack on IT provider CTS impacts dozens of UK law firms





UK and South Korea: Hackers use zero-day in supply-chain attack





Malware dev says they can revive expired Google auth cookies









Leveraging Wazuh to combat insider threats





Google Drive users angry over losing months of stored data





Learn Azure at your own pace with $77 off this exam prep bundle





New Rust-based SysJoker backdoor linked to Hamas hackers








Downloads



Latest
Most Downloaded







Qualys BrowserCheck





STOPDecrypter





AuroraDecrypter





FilesLockerDecrypter









AdwCleaner





ComboFix





RKill





Junkware Removal Tool








VPNs



Popular







Best VPNs





How to change IP address





Access the dark web safely





Best VPN for YouTube








Virus Removal Guides



Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware







Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect





Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect





How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension





Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect









Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)





How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo





How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)





How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller









Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ





CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ





CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ





CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ








Tutorials



Latest
Popular







How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11





How to use the Windows Registry Editor





How to backup and restore the Windows Registry





How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator









How to start Windows in Safe Mode





How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware





How to show hidden files in Windows 7





How to see hidden files in Windows








Deals



Categories







eLearning





IT Certification Courses





Gear + Gadgets





Security








Forums
More

Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide




























HomeNewsSecurityBlack Friday 2023: Get 25% off the Zero2Automated malware analysis course 







 















Black Friday 2023: Get 25% off the Zero2Automated malware analysis course 


By Lawrence Abrams




November 23, 2023
09:00 AM
0





The popular Zero2Automated malware analysis and reverse-engineering course has a Black Friday 2023 through Cyber Monday sale, where you can get 25% off sitewide, including gift certificates and courses.
Started in May 2020 by two well-known reverse engineers, Vitali Kremez and Daniel Bunce (aka 0verfl0w_), Zero2Automated is more than just an online training course.
Participants also engaged in an online community where they can chat with over 1,000 peers and teachers as they work through 25+ hours of malware analysis and reverse engineering content.
The Zero2Automated community also includes regular malware challenges, where students analyze a range of real-world malware samples.
When we first promoted the courses' holiday deal, BleepingComputer spoke to some students and was told there are "no malware analysis courses like this one anywhere else."
Special Black Friday and Cyber Monday deal
Starting on November 23rd at 14:00 GMT through November 27th at 23:59 GMT, Zero2Automated is offering a 25% sitewide discount with the code BLACKFRIDAY that can be used to purchase gift certificates or courses.
This promotion also offers an 'Ultimate Malware Reverse Engineering Bundle' containing three courses taking you from Zero to Hero in malware analysis.
"Until 23:59 GMT Cyber Monday you can enroll in any Zero2Automated course/bundle, for 25% off - this discount is store wide, so that includes our Ultimate Malware Reverse Engineering Bundle, consisting of the Beginner Malware Analysis Course, Zero2Hero, and Zero2Automated: The Advanced Malware Analysis Course!," Bunce told BleepingComputer about the offer.
"You will of course receive lifetime access to all course content and material, so there is no need to rush through the content; it is completely self paced."

To get 25% off the custom  'Ultimate Malware Reverse Engineering Bundle,' or anything on their site, you can use this link to apply the discount automatically.
This offer is live between November 23rd at 14:00 GMT through November 27th at 23:59 GMT.

All course versions of Zero2Automated include a 10% discount on an IDA Pro Named License or IDA Home subscription.
A brief demonstration of one of the Zero2Automated lessons can be seen below.

BleepingComputer does not earn any commissions from the sales of these courses and was not paid to write this article.

Related Articles:
Learn Azure at your own pace with $77 off this exam prep bundleThe Black Friday 2023 Security, IT, VPN, & Antivirus DealsBlack Friday prices on best-selling IT and cybersecurity course dealsKickstart your coding career with 14 expert courses for under $40NordVPN Black Friday Deal: Save up to 69% on yearly subscriptions











Black Friday
Course
Deal
Reverse Engineering
Zero2Automated
























Lawrence Abrams   
Lawrence Abrams is the owner and Editor in Chief of BleepingComputer.com. Lawrence's area of expertise includes Windows, malware removal, and computer forensics. Lawrence Abrams is a co-author of the Winternals Defragmentation, Recovery, and Administration Field Guide and the technical editor for Rootkits for Dummies.




 Previous Article 
Next Article 



Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment

Not a member yet? Register Now



You may also like:













Popular Stories






General Electric investigates claims of cyber attack, data theft







Atomic Stealer malware strikes macOS via fake browser updates

































Follow us:









Main Sections

News
VPN Buyer Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary



Community

Forums
Forum Rules
Chat



Useful Resources

Welcome Guide
Sitemap



Company

About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog








Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure


Copyright @ 2003 - 2023  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved












Login


Username



Password





Remember Me



Sign in anonymously





 Sign in with Twitter

Not a member yet? Register Now
















  
Reporter

Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?




Spam


Abusive or Harmful


Inappropriate content


Strong language


Other





Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.



Submitting...
SUBMIT















