














































NIST Researchers Explore Best Practices for Talking to Kids About Online Privacy | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/08/nist-researchers-explore-best-practices-talking-kids-about-online-privacy














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















UPDATES



NIST Researchers Explore Best Practices for Talking to Kids About Online Privacy


August 07, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email















How can parents encourage their children to use online technology safely and privately?



  Today's youth are digital natives. They've never known a world without the internet or online technology. It is crucial they develop the skills and resilience to safely navigate these digital environments from an early age. At NIST, scientists conducted a study to find out how much these digital natives and their parents know about online security and privacy.
How can parents encourage their children to use online technology safely? Recent research by scientists at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) suggests that a good strategy is to talk to your kids directly about online privacy and security — from a young age through high school. 
The research effort, which the NIST team members describe as an exploratory study, involved interviewing 40 parent/child pairs with kids between 3rd and 12th grades. The goal was to understand their knowledge about online privacy, security, and risky online behavior, and how the parents attempt to influence their kids’ online activities and knowledge about privacy and security. 
The NIST team’s preliminary findings and suggested strategies include: 
It’s never too early to talk to kids. Start when they first begin using technology. Children as young as elementary school knew about security, privacy and online risks, and were interested in learning more about how to stay safe online. 
Talking to kids helps them better understand how to navigate the digital world. Many parents felt hesitant to talk about online privacy and security, often citing their own lack of knowledge. But kids whose parents talked with them about online privacy and security were more knowledgeable. Conversations do not need to be highly technical — parents can discuss online activities and how to make good choices.  
Appreciate that kids may see the digital world differently. The kids viewed online privacy and security as things they can control. They also felt that all risks are not the same, requiring an understanding of each situation. Parents, though, saw most online activities as very risky, resulting in them often telling their kids what not to do, instead of what to do. It may be more helpful to talk about behavior options and the potential consequences of each. 
The team is presenting the findings in two papers: one at the Human-Computer Interaction International conference in July 2023, and the other at the Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security in August 2023. NIST has also created this video to introduce the research to a general audience.  
Olivia Williams et al. ‘They’re not risky’ vs ‘It can ruin your whole life’: How parent-child dyads differ in their understandings of online risk. Human-Computer Interaction International (HCII) conference, July 23-28, 2023.  
Olivia Williams et al. Youth understandings of online privacy and security: A dyadic study of children and their parents. 19th Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security, Aug. 6-8, 2023.
 





Information technology, Cybersecurity, Privacy and Usability and human factors








Media Contact




Chad Boutin

charles.boutin@nist.gov


    (301) 975-4261
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsInformation Technology LaboratoryInformation Access DivisionVisualization and Usability Group












Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released August 7, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














