














































NIST Revises SP 800-171 Guidelines for Protecting Sensitive Information | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/05/nist-revises-sp-800-171-guidelines-protecting-sensitive-information














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















NEWS



NIST Revises SP 800-171 Guidelines for Protecting Sensitive Information


Draft Revision 3 aligns the publication’s language with NIST’s 800-53 catalog of cybersecurity safeguards.


May 10, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email




















Credit:
          
  Shutterstock/ACTS DATA STOCK

        


The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has updated its draft guidelines for protecting sensitive unclassified information, in an effort to help federal agencies and government contractors more consistently implement cybersecurity requirements.
The revised draft guidelines, Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and Organizations (NIST Special Publication [SP] 800-171 Revision 3), will be of particular interest to the many thousands of businesses that contract with the federal government. Federal rules that govern the protection of controlled unclassified information (CUI), which includes such sensitive data as health information, critical energy infrastructure information and intellectual property, reference the SP 800-171 security requirements. Systems that store CUI often support government programs containing critical assets, such as design specifications for weapons systems, communications systems and space systems.
The changes are intended in part to help these businesses better understand how to implement the specific cybersecurity safeguards provided in a closely related NIST publication, SP 800-53 Rev. 5. The authors have aligned the language of the two publications, so that businesses can more readily apply SP 800-53’s catalog of technical tools, or “controls,” to achieve SP 800-171’s cybersecurity outcomes. 
According to NIST’s Ron Ross, the update is designed to help maintain consistent defenses against high-level threats to information security. 
“Many of the newly added requirements specifically address threats to CUI, which recently has been a target of state-level espionage. We want to implement and maintain state-of-the-practice defenses because the threat space is changing constantly,” said Ross, a NIST Fellow and one of the publication’s authors. “We tried to express those requirements in a way that shows contractors what we do and why in federal cybersecurity. There’s more useful detail now with less ambiguity.” 
NIST is requesting public comments on the draft guidelines by July 14, 2023.
Notable updates in the draft include: 
Changes to reflect the state-of-practice cybersecurity controls;
Revised criteria used by NIST to develop security requirements;
Increased specificity and alignment of the security requirements in SP 800-171 Rev. 3 with SP 800-53 Rev. 5, to aid in implementation and assessment; and
Additional resources to help implementers understand and analyze the proposed updates.  
Ross said that the end goal of the changes was to simplify the ecosystem of NIST cybersecurity publications while providing a better set of requirements. 
“Protecting CUI, including intellectual property, is critical to the nation’s ability to innovate — with far-reaching implications for our national and economic security,” he said. “We need to have safeguards that are sufficiently strong to do the job.” 
NIST also anticipates releasing at least one more draft version of SP 800-171 Rev. 3 before publishing the final in early 2024. Following the publication of the final version, the authors plan to revise the set of supporting NIST publications on protecting controlled unclassified information, including SPs 800-171A (security requirement assessment), SP 800-172 (enhanced security requirements) and SP 800-172A (enhanced security requirement assessment). 
NIST is planning a webinar for June 6, 2023, to introduce the changes made to SP 800-171. Registration information will be posted next week on the Protecting CUI project site.





Information technology, Complex systems and Cybersecurity








Media Contact




Chad Boutin

charles.boutin@nist.gov


    (301) 975-4261
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsInformation Technology LaboratoryComputer Security DivisionSecurity Engineering and Risk Management Group











Related Links


SP 800-171 Rev. 3
SP 800-53 Rev. 5





Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released May 10, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














