








































FISSEA Summer Forum: August 23, 2023 | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/events/2023/08/fissea-summer-forum-august-23-2023














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources





















EVENTS


FISSEA Summer Forum: August 23, 2023




Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email
















Read the Code of Conduct for NIST Conferences.








              August 23, 2023
                    1:00 - 4:00pm EDT
          



Virtual


Registration closed.
If you have an accommodation request, please contact the NICE Program Office at nice [at] nist.gov (nice[at]nist[dot]gov) or (240) 457-2638 no later than three business days prior to the event.
Recording Note: Portions of the event may be recorded and audience Q&A or comments may be captured. The recorded event may be edited and rebroadcast or otherwise made publicly available by NIST.  By registering for -- or attending -- this event, you acknowledge and consent to being recorded.









FISSEA Summer Forum 2023


The presentations slides are available here. 
Download the Continuing Education Units form. 
Provide event feedback here.

The FISSEA Forums are quarterly meetings to provide opportunities for policy and programmatic updates, the exchange of best practices, and discussion and engagement among members of the Federal Information Security Educators (FISSEA) community. 
Agenda:


1:00pm-1:05pm   
 


FISSEA Welcoming Remarks 
Marian Merritt, NICE Deputy Director, National Institute of Standards and Technology
 




1:05pm-1:10pm    
 


Welcome and Event Logistics 
Kendra Henthorne, FISSEA Co-Chair
 




1:10pm-1:50pm
 


Opening Keynote - "AI: Where We’re Going and How (Not?) to Get There"
Anthony Boese, Interagency Programs Manager and Ethics Officer, National Artificial Intelligence Institute, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
 




1:50pm-2:20pm
 


Privacy and Ethics as a Foundation for AI Risk Management Training
Julie McEwen, Privacy Capability Area Lead, Principal Cybersecurity & Privacy Engineer, MITRE
The use of AI can present a number of privacy risks, and appropriate training can help with managing those risks. This presentation will discuss core AI concepts, foundational privacy concepts, AI risks and privacy, and the synergy between privacy governance and AI governance. Recommendations for addressing AI governance and AI privacy considerations in AI risk management training will also be provided. 
 




2:20pm-2:30pm
 


Break
 




2:30pm-3:00pm
 


Phishing for User Context: Understanding the NIST Phish Scale
Dr. Shanee Dawkins, Computer Scientist, National Institute of Standards and Technology
Jody Jacobs, Computer Scientist, National Institute of Standards and Technology
The NIST Phish Scale is a method for measuring human phishing detection difficulty, providing a metric – a phishing email detection difficulty rating – for phishing training implementers to gain a better understanding of the variability in click rates resulting from their phishing training exercises. This talk will give an overview of the role user context plays in phishing detection and how our research led to the creation of the NIST Phish Scale. We will also present the NIST Phish Scale in detail, highlighting new ways to apply it in phishing awareness programs.
 




3:00pm – 3:30pm
 


The Future with AI
Tushar Rathod, Enterprise Architecture, Social Security Administration
AI will have a profound impact on how we work, play and live in the near future. This presentation explores, prompts and postulates future trends with the advent of AI, as it matures & delivers on its promise.
 




3:30pm – 3:55pm
 


Role-Based Training, An Epic Tale of Woe and Triumph
Morgan Floyd, InfoSec Training & Awareness Coordinator, Cyber Assurance, Texas Health & Human Services 
Training security professionals so they can better defend our organizations should be an uncomplicated process, but in the rapid-changing industry of cybersecurity, it's surprisingly difficult.  We know they need training but how do we know which training? To answer that question, we created a program, based on the NICE Framework, that identifies what our security professionals do and helps us understand what they need.
 




3:55pm-4:00pm
 


Closing Remarks 
Menachem Goldstein, FISSEA Co-Chair


Return to FISSEA Main Page









Cybersecurity and Cybersecurity education and workforce development









Read the Code of Conduct for NIST Conferences.








              August 23, 2023
                    1:00 - 4:00pm EDT
          



Virtual


Registration closed.
If you have an accommodation request, please contact the NICE Program Office at nice [at] nist.gov (nice[at]nist[dot]gov) or (240) 457-2638 no later than three business days prior to the event.
Recording Note: Portions of the event may be recorded and audience Q&A or comments may be captured. The recorded event may be edited and rebroadcast or otherwise made publicly available by NIST.  By registering for -- or attending -- this event, you acknowledge and consent to being recorded.





Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsInformation Technology LaboratoryApplied Cybersecurity DivisionNICE














  Created May 2, 2023, Updated October 17, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














