








































NIST’s SBIR Program Could be for You | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/04/nists-sbir-program-could-be-you














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















UPDATES



NIST’s SBIR Program Could be for You


April 26, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email














Fascination with technological innovation is built into America’s DNA. 
Today’s legions of U.S. scientific and engineering researchers are directly connected to the independent mechanics, artisans, and tinkerers of colonial and pre-industrial times.  As in the past, small business continues to be a significant engine of our country’s technological innovation.  
Each year, many grant applications from science and technology researchers are submitted to the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program, the federal government’s largest platform to promote U.S. technology innovation research and private-sector commercialization. The program is designed to enhance our national economic health, security, and quality of life. 
Forty-one years ago, Congress created the SBIR program to take advantage of America’s dedication to technological innovation. Each year, interest in the SBIR program grows as more small business applicants learn of it, explore its advantages and benefits for their work, and seek to participate. 
NIST is one of 11 federal government agencies that operate an SBIR program.  The Small Business Administration oversees the overall program. However, each of the 11 participating federal departments and agencies tailors its SBIR program to the specific research needs within the range of its research portfolio.
The SBIR program is open to U.S.-based small business concerns (SBCs).  An SBC is a concern that meets the SBIR program eligibility Requirements set forth in 13 C.F.R. 121.702.  Research and research and development work proposed by the applicant must be performed in the United States.
Applicants need to address a specific NIST technical program area that falls within one of the multiple research areas currently ongoing at NIST.
The SBIR program consists of three phases.  Phase I is the feasibility stage, where cooperative agreements are awarded to study the research's technical feasibility and assess its commercialization potential.  The project may be performed within six months, and the funding can be up to $100,000 for each award.
The NIST SBIR Phase I program is open now and is accepting applications with a deadline submission of May 22, 2023. Details are located on the NIST SBIR homepage at www.nist.gov/sbir.
Phase II is the Research and Development stage, where prototypes are developed to further explore a project’s commercialization potential.    
The NIST Phase II competition is open only to companies that have received and completed a previous Phase I award from NIST. The Phase II project period covers up to two years, and associated funding can be for up to $400,000.  
Applications for the FY2023 NIST SBIR Phase II program are being accepted now, and the deadline for submission is June 5, 2023.  More specifics can be found on the NIST SBIR homepage at www.nist.gov/sbir. 
SBIR Phase III occurs after the completion of Phase II and focuses on commercialization and builds upon the progress of Phases I and II.  SBIR Phase III is not funded by SBIR funds.
Look into the exciting opportunities that the SBIR program could offer to your business by checking out the announcement for the FY2023 SBIR Phase I at www.nist.gov/sbir.  If you think that your company’s innovative idea can help solve a problem in any of the multiple areas of ongoing research at NIST, feel free to submit a proposal and become a part of the growing community of NIST SBIR awardees.  
 





Advanced communications, Quantum communications, Bioscience, Health, Information technology, Cybersecurity, Health IT, Infrastructure, Manufacturing, Additive manufacturing, Materials, Metrology, Resilience and Standards








Technical Contact




Christopher Hunton

christopher.hunton@nist.gov


    (301) 975-5718
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersInnovation & Industry ServicesInnovation & Industry ServicesTechnology Partnerships OfficeTechnology Partnerships Office - HQ












Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released April 26, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














