














































4th Multi-cloud Conference and Workshop | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/events/2023/05/4th-multi-cloud-conference-and-workshop














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources





















EVENTS


4th Multi-cloud Conference and Workshop




Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email
















Read the Code of Conduct for NIST Conferences.








              May 24 - 25, 2023




Herbert C. Hoover Federal Building 
1401 Constitution Avenue NW 
Washington, DC 20230 


Registration is now closed.
In-Person Attendees: Information regarding "Know Before You Go" and Arrival instructions will be sent out on May 19, 2023 by email. In response to many requests we have added a View-Only Option: A live stream will be available on the event page for May 25th only, as a view-only option (in real time but without an opportunity to provide comments or ask questions). Registration is not required for the view-only option. Please bookmark this page today if you plan to watch the live-streamed conference on May 25th. 


Registration Contact



Karen M. Startsman

karen.startsman@nist.gov


    (301) 975-6602
  





Technical Contact



David Ferraiolo

david.ferraiolo@nist.gov


    (301) 975-3046
  












 
This year’s Multi-Cloud Conference hosted by NIST, Department of Commerce (DOC), and Tetrate will focus on delivering Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA) through application-tier and network-tier policies in a high-assurance service mesh operating environment. This makes the enforcement of consistent, enterprise-wide policy a reality irrespective of service or application location, whether on-premises or across multiple clouds.  
We’ll look at security challenges that public agencies face and provide insight and know-how to address them to ensure that your agency’s security posture can protect against threats. We will also discuss critical tools for achieving high assurance security for cloud-native applications, including API gateways and infrastructure for assigning tamper-proof cryptographic identities to applications. We will further discuss techniques for instilling trust in the entire application life cycle, such as securing supply chain artifacts, policy and infrastructure as code, continuous authorization to operate, and observability strategies. 
The conference program features both leadership and actionable insight from experts in service mesh, ZTA, identity-centric security, open-source software development, and emerging NIST Special Publications. Presentations will cover a wide range of topics, including: 

NIST recommendations for realizing zero trust principles in cloud-native applications and for securing artifacts in software supply chains 


Approaches for authentication and access control for users, services, and devices in cloud-native applications in multi-cloud environments 


The role of open source in cloud-native application security and compliance 


Best practices and common pitfalls for implementing ZTA 

Policymakers, entrepreneurs, students, and cybersecurity professionals are encouraged to attend! 
workshop information - may 24, 2023
Free 2-hour Service Mesh Training 
WORKSHOP REGISTRATION IS NOW CLOSED.  CAPACITY HAS BEEN REACHED.
CONFERENCE REGISTRATION REMAINS OPEN.
Name: Introduction to Service Mesh with Istio and Envoy 
Location:  Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center, 1300 Pennsylvania Ave, Suite 700, Washington, DC 20004
Session 1: 1:00 - 2:45PM EDT (max 55 registrants) 
Session 2: 3:00 - 4:45PM EDT (max 55 registrants) 
A service mesh is a modern and powerful tool for implementing the tenets of zero trust. It provides dynamic, behavior-based security to protect microservices, APIs, and data, including end-to-end encryption, attribute-based access control (ABAC), API threat detection and protection, and full audit histories with dashboards for continuous proof of compliance.  
In this workshop, you will learn the basics of service mesh and get hands-on training with Istio, Kubernetes, and other tools to build in-app and user-level security permissions, encryption in transit, and enhanced identity and access controls, as well as provide runtime observability – all of which are necessary for achieving zero trust security in practice.  
Between exercises, we will present the theory behind how the service mesh works, and you will have virtual access to service mesh experts to answer your questions throughout the workshop. With this knowledge and your practical experience, you will be able to: 

Understand service mesh and the capabilities it offers to manage microservices 


Understand the high-level architecture and components of technology solutions (e.g., Istio)  


Install the Istio service mesh on top of a Kubernetes cluster 


Interact with the service mesh using the istioctl command line tool 


Use Istio dashboards to monitor and debug microservices 

Presenters:  

Matt Turner, Software Engineer, Tetrate  


Zack Butcher, Founding Engineer, Tetrate 









    Agenda
  




 4th Multi-Cloud Conferece Final Agenda.pdf












    Security Instructions
  


Department of Commerce facilities are routinely open to the public for official business during regular business hours.  Controlled access to certain areas of the building will be always instituted during events/meeting to ensure protection of personnel and property. 
Entry, Identification, Inspection, and Controlled Movement protocol for Visitors during Special Events 
Visitors must arrive and register at the HCHB main lobby, visitors’ entrance. 
The event sponsor is responsible to confirm the visitors are authorized for access to attend their event/meeting.  
Visitors are required to present current picture identification upon arrival to the Protective Security Officer. 
All visitors will be screened. 
Personal articles such as briefcases, purses, and hand carried items will also be inspected. 
Visitors will be issued temporary visitor identification badges. 
Badges are required to be always visible on the torso above the waist.  
Visitors are only allowed in the area of the event/meeting. 








Information technology, Cloud computing and virtualization, Cybersecurity and Identity and access management









Read the Code of Conduct for NIST Conferences.








              May 24 - 25, 2023




Herbert C. Hoover Federal Building 
1401 Constitution Avenue NW 
Washington, DC 20230 


Registration is now closed.
In-Person Attendees: Information regarding "Know Before You Go" and Arrival instructions will be sent out on May 19, 2023 by email. In response to many requests we have added a View-Only Option: A live stream will be available on the event page for May 25th only, as a view-only option (in real time but without an opportunity to provide comments or ask questions). Registration is not required for the view-only option. Please bookmark this page today if you plan to watch the live-streamed conference on May 25th. 


Registration Contact



Karen M. Startsman

karen.startsman@nist.gov


    (301) 975-6602
  





Technical Contact



David Ferraiolo

david.ferraiolo@nist.gov


    (301) 975-3046
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsInformation Technology LaboratoryComputer Security Division










Related Event


DevSecOps and ZTA for Cloud-Native Applications - Third Annual Multi-Cloud Conference and Workshop (virtual)
DevSecOps and Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA) for Multi-Cloud Environments












  Created March 24, 2023, Updated June 23, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














