








































33rd Annual FISSEA Conference | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/events/2023/05/33rd-annual-fissea-conference














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources





















EVENTS


33rd Annual FISSEA Conference




Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email
















Read the Code of Conduct for NIST Conferences.








              May 16, 2023
                    9:00am - 4:30pm EDT
          



Herbert Clark Hoover Building, U.S. Department of Commerce
1401 Constitution Ave. NW,
Washington, DC 20230


Registration has closed.
*In person: doors open at 8am and exhibits remain open until 5pm. 
There is no fee to attend this event. 
If you have an accommodation request, please contact the NICE Program Office at nice [at] nist.gov (nice[at]nist[dot]gov) or (240) 457-2638 no later than three business days prior to the event.
Recording Note: Portions of the event may be recorded and audience Q&A or comments may be captured. The recorded event may be edited and rebroadcast or otherwise made publicly available by NIST.  By registering for -- or attending -- this event, you acknowledge and consent to being recorded.
Directions to Venue
Security Instructions







 Theme: Consumer Fraud Education

Download the Continuing Education Units form. 
The presentation slides are available here. 
Provide event feedback here.

33rd Annual FISSEA Conference



Agenda:


8:00am - 9:00am 


Registration and Check-in
 




9:00am - 9:15am


Welcome and Opening Remarks
Kendra Henthorne, FISSEA Co-Chair
Marian Merritt, National Institute of Standards and Technology
 




9:15am - 10:00am


Opening Keynote: Consumer Fraud
William Brown, Social Security Administration, Office of the Inspector General
 




10:00am - 10:30am


Featured Presentation: The Need to Reframe Fraud Victimization
Kathy Stokes, Fraud Prevention Programs, AARP
 




10:30am - 11:00am


Break: Exhibit Hall Open
 




11:00am - 11:45am


Panel: Consumer Fraud
Kendra Henthorne, FISSEA Co-Chair (moderator)
Karey Johnson, Social Security Administration
Michael Benardo, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
Raymond Campbell, United States Postal Inspection Service
 




11:45am - 1:00pm


Lunch: Exhibit Hall Open
(Lunch on your own in Reagan Building Food Court or Commerce Cafeteria)
 




1:00pm - 1:45pm


Featured Presentation: Scam Trends Affecting Communities and Businesses
Rosario Mendez, Federal Trade Commission
 




1:45pm – 2:30pm


Featured Presentation: Combatting Consumer Fraud Through Awareness
Michael P. Moran, Special Agent, United States Secret Service
 




2:30pm - 3:15pm


Break - Exhibit Hall Open
 




3:15pm - 4:30pm


Closing Session
Closing Keynote- Humans Are Not the Weakest Link: Rethinking Cyber Security and Digital Hygiene Education
Dr. Aunshul Rege, Temple University
Closing Remarks from FISSEA Co-Chair
Menachem Goldstein, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
 




4:30pm - 5:00pm 


Exhibit Hall Open
 


Download the Conference Program
Directions:
All visitors without a U.S. Federal Government Employee ID must enter through the 14th Street Main Entrance.
Visitors with a U.S. Federal Government Employee ID may enter through the 14th Street Main Entrance or the entrance at the U.S. Department of Commerce tunnel (accessed from the Ronald Reagan Building Food Court – Concourse Level)
Parking:
There is no onsite parking at the Herbert C. Hoover Building (HCHB). The closest parking is at the Ronald Reagan Building across the street.
Metro:
Federal Triangle (Blue, Sliver, and Orange Lines): 5 minute walk to HCHB
Go up two escalators to exit the metro station and reach the street level (Woodrow Wilson Plaza).
Stay to the left to exit the Plaza. 
Turn left immediately after passing the stairs that lead down to the Concourse/Food Court level. (do not go down the stairs!)
Turn right to walk in between the two buildings toward 14th St. 
Use the crosswalk on the right to cross 14th St. 
Turn right after crossing the street.
The entrance will be on your left.
Metro Center (Red Line): 10 minute walk to HCHB
Follow signs to exit toward 13th & G St. (You’ll take 1 escalator up if coming from the Red Line and 2 escalators up if coming from the Orange/Blue/Silver Lines).
Go up the escalator to exit the metro station and reach the street level (Peets Coffee).
Exit to the right to walk past Peets Coffee and toward F St. 
Continue 2 blocks to Pennsylvania Ave. 
Cross Pennsylvania Ave. and turn right toward 14th St. 
Cross 14th St and turn left to walk down 14th St. 
The entrance will be on your right.
Security Instructions:
Government Employees
Upon Arrival to an HCHB visitor entrance, present your PIV/CAC card to bypass security screening.
All visitors without a US Federal Government Employee ID
All visitors must pass through the magnetometer and/or be scanned with handheld screening devices.
All visitors must have all briefcases, purses, etc. scanned or searched.
All visitors will need to pass a photo identification (ID)* checkpoint.
*US Citizens please see information regarding the REAL ID Act of 2005 below. International participants are required to present a passport.  Permanent residents are required to present their Green Card.

For Non-US Citizens:  Please have your valid passport for photo identification.   
For US Permanent Residents: Please have your green card for photo identification.   
For US Citizens: Please have your state-issued driver's license. Regarding Real-ID requirements, all states are in compliance or have an extension through May 2023.  
NIST also accepts other forms of federally issued identification in lieu of a state-issued driver's license, such as a valid passport, passport card, DOD's Common Access Card (CAC), Veterans ID, Federal Agency HSPD-12 IDs, and Military Dependents ID.
 
Return to FISSEA Main Page









Cybersecurity and Cybersecurity education and workforce development









Read the Code of Conduct for NIST Conferences.








              May 16, 2023
                    9:00am - 4:30pm EDT
          



Herbert Clark Hoover Building, U.S. Department of Commerce
1401 Constitution Ave. NW,
Washington, DC 20230


Registration has closed.
*In person: doors open at 8am and exhibits remain open until 5pm. 
There is no fee to attend this event. 
If you have an accommodation request, please contact the NICE Program Office at nice [at] nist.gov (nice[at]nist[dot]gov) or (240) 457-2638 no later than three business days prior to the event.
Recording Note: Portions of the event may be recorded and audience Q&A or comments may be captured. The recorded event may be edited and rebroadcast or otherwise made publicly available by NIST.  By registering for -- or attending -- this event, you acknowledge and consent to being recorded.
Directions to Venue
Security Instructions





Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsInformation Technology LaboratoryApplied Cybersecurity DivisionNICE














  Created March 19, 2023, Updated June 23, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














