














































NIST’s National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence Renews Partnerships With State, County | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/03/nists-national-cybersecurity-center-excellence-renews-partnerships-state














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















NEWS



NIST’s National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence Renews Partnerships With State, County


Also launched: the NIST Small Business Cybersecurity Community of Interest.


March 07, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email















  Left to right: Deputy Secretary of Commerce Don Graves, Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology and NIST Director Laurie E. Locascio, Maryland Secretary of Commerce Kevin Anderson, and Montgomery County Executive Marc Elrich sign a partnership agreement at the NIST National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence.


Credit:
          
  Rich Press/NIST

        
ROCKVILLE, Md. — The  Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), the state of Maryland and Montgomery County, Maryland, have renewed their partnership in support of the National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE), a collaborative hub where industry, government and academic experts work together to solve pressing cybersecurity challenges.  
Leaders from the three organizations — Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology and NIST Director Laurie E. Locascio, Maryland Secretary of Commerce Kevin Anderson and Montgomery County Executive Marc Elrich — signed a five-year agreement extending their partnership yesterday at the NCCoE in Rockville, Maryland. 
The NCCoE, which was established in 2012, helps businesses secure their information technology systems with practical solutions based on industry standards, best practices and commercially available technology. The center also collaborates with researchers and technology vendors to provide guidance on industry-specific challenges such as securing health care data, protecting financial transactions and safeguarding critical infrastructure.  
At the event, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Commerce Don Graves called the NCCoE “an ideal place and way for federal, state, and local governments to join forces and tackle tough cybersecurity issues.” 
Graves also announced the launch of the NIST Small Business Cybersecurity Community of Interest (COI). “This initiative will help to make sure that NIST’s guidance is both meaningful and practical for smaller companies and other organizations to put into use,” he said. “Beyond benefiting the NCCoE and its participants, this new community of interest promises to improve the return on all of NIST’s investments in cybersecurity research, standards, guidelines and practices.” 

Interested in joining NIST’s new Small Business Cybersecurity Community of Interest? Learn more here.

Also at the event, NIST Director Locascio thanked the state of Maryland and Montgomery County, Maryland, for their commitment to the NCCoE and singled out the companies that are part of the center’s National Cybersecurity Excellence Partnership. They have “provided NCCoE with tremendous resources and infused creativity into the cybersecurity solutions now available and in use by many companies, government agencies and other organizations,” she said. 
One goal of the renewed partnership agreement is to better address the needs of companies and institutions in the state and county, with a particular focus on small businesses. With that goal in mind, the agreement signed yesterday calls on the state and county governments to expand their efforts to facilitate the NCCoE’s relationships with Maryland-based companies. In addition, the new community of interest announced yesterday offers smaller companies multiple ways to collaborate with and take greater advantage of NCCoE’s capabilities and solutions. 
The agreement also aims to strengthen the NCCoE’s connections with local public schools and academic institutions throughout the state. These relationships are key to the NCCoE’s efforts to support the development of a skilled cybersecurity workforce, which it does in part through student internships. 
Organizations interested in working with the the NCCoE, the State of Maryland and Montgomery County on cybersecurity issues should reach out with an email to nccoe [at] nist.gov (nccoe[at]nist[dot]gov).  





Information technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy








Media Contact




Rich Press

richard.press@nist.gov


    (301) 975-0501
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsInformation Technology LaboratoryApplied Cybersecurity DivisionNational Cybersecurity Center of Excellence












Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released March 7, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














