














































Immersive Test Center brings first responders advanced training, opportunities to overcome challenges | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/03/immersive-test-center-brings-first-responders-advanced-training














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















UPDATES



Immersive Test Center brings first responders advanced training, opportunities to overcome challenges


March 03, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email





















This blog is a repost from the First Responder Network Authority, originally published on March 2, 2023.
One of the biggest training challenges for first responders is the ability to train in realistic environments that reflect those they will face day to day. Technology has advanced these capabilities dramatically, with augmented and virtual reality able to simulate a range of situations. Recognizing this need for public safety, the First Responder Network Authority (FirstNet Authority) partnered with the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST) Public Safety Communications Research (PSCR) Division to develop the Public Safety Immersive Test Center (Test Center).
Inside the Public Safety Immersive Test Center
The 1,100 square foot center, located in the FirstNet Authority Technical Facility in Boulder, Colorado, is equipped with a motion capture system, 62 high speed optical tracking cameras, a variety of augmented and virtual reality headsets, and gear and fixtures that add a tactile component to simulations. Using this space, first responders can experience various scenarios, such as coordinating complex events or simulating a burning building. The equipment allows for an immersive engagement – when participants see and feel a chair in virtual reality, they will be able to touch and move a chair in the Test Center.
In addition to training, the Test Center will be used for research and development, answering key questions about the future of user interfaces and location-based services for public safety training and operations. For location-based services, the Test Center will allow us to validate the accuracy of indoor location tracking technologies.  And as virtual and augmented reality tools for public safety are developed and refined, we can evaluate their usefulness in the Test Center for responders in the real world.
Looking to the future of public safety operations
Scott Ledgerwood, UIUX Lead with NIST PSCR, explained, “This space is really a one-of-a-kind lab that allows us to look at some of the future communication technology systems that could be supportive of public safety operations, looking at things like virtual reality, integrating real-time tracking and props for creating more immersive experiences, and leveraging our systems to do indoor tracking and providing ground truth or reference systems to improve these technology systems.”
The Test Center is open to public safety, free of charge. The FirstNet Authority and NIST PSCR encourage first responders to come in to engage with experts and try out some of these advanced technologies. This provides a unique opportunity for responders to learn more about the development of technology and provide insight on how it can be leveraged to enhance on-the-ground operations.
“This is my second time at the Test Center and each time that I’ve come, I’ve learned more,” said Lieutenant Luke Hawkins, a firefighter and paramedic with Mountain View Fire Rescue in Colorado. “I’m excited about coming back again [and] looking at the support and ingenuity that these facilities bring to our industry. I think, for a lot of the guys that are on the line, we don’t know how much [work] is involved in terms of development and inventions to help us become better at our jobs and become safer. So, it’s always exciting coming back here to the Test Center to be able to learn what’s being improved, what’s being implemented, and what our future has for us.”
Partners in advancing public safety communications
From prize challenges to technology testing, the FirstNet Authority and NIST have a long history of partnering on innovative projects benefiting public safety. The goals of this partnership have always been to advance public safety communications technology and incorporate the most cutting-edge technology available to enhance operations for first responders.
Speaking about the joint creation of the Test Center, Jeff Bratcher, FirstNet Authority Chief Network and Technology Officer, explained, “The partnership with NIST PSCR has been ongoing for more than ten years now, leveraging their advanced research and capabilities. They had the ownership of the research and development funding in the legislation that created FirstNet. At our FirstNet Authority laboratory facility, we had a large open warehouse-type space, and it fit perfectly. They were able to bring their equipment in and create the immersive test center.”
The facility is key to understanding public safety’s changing needs and driving those needs into standards development. The collaboration on site gives both industry and public safety the opportunity to develop technology that strategically supports their life saving mission.
If you are interested in learning more about the Test Center, or if you would like to schedule a visit, please reach out to me at kim.coleman [at] firstnet.gov (kim[dot]coleman[at]firstnet[dot]gov).





Advanced communications, Information technology, Cybersecurity, Virtual / augmented reality, Public safety and Public safety communications research



Related Video





Welcome to the PSITC



This video provides an overview of the NIST and FirstNet Authority's Public Safety Immersive Test Center (PSITC) located in Boulder, Colorado.















Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsCommunications Technology LaboratoryPublic Safety Communications Research DivisionPublic Safety Communications Research Division - HQ











Related News


How PSCR and the FirstNet Authority are Connected for Public Safety
FirstNet Authority, NIST Launch Immersive Virtual Experience Center for Public Safety





Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released March 3, 2023, Updated March 6, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














