














































Spotlight: Understanding Human-Tech Interactions With Computer Scientist Shanée Dawkins | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/02/spotlight-understanding-human-tech-interactions-computer-scientist-shanee














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















UPDATES



Spotlight: Understanding Human-Tech Interactions With Computer Scientist Shanée Dawkins


February 03, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email



















Shaneé Dawkins professional photo


Credit:
          
  Shaneé Dawkins

        



Meet Shanée Dawkins, a computer scientist whose expertise in the way people interact with technology extends in multiple directions, from phishing to public safety and beyond. Here are a few examples:  
Firsthand First Response Frustrations
Two years ago, Shanée worked on a project to understand the ways in which first responders use technology on the job. She and her colleagues examined public safety professionals’ environments, tasks and communication needs.
Part of the job even required Shanée to suit up in full firefighter gear, air tank and all. She was able to experience firsthand the frustrations of using communications technology while wearing fire protection gloves and carrying heavy equipment.
For more information, Shanée even wrote a blog post about the experience.
Gone Phishing
Fast forward to 2023, and Shanée has just received a Gold Medal Award from the U.S. Department of Commerce for wholly different effort. She applied her experience in usability to cybersecurity this time. 
She and her team developed a tool called the Phish Scale, a first-of-its-kind measurement method that improves organizations’ training to detect specific scams called phishing attacks. Phishing occurs when cybercriminals attempt to trick employees of an organization into giving up access to their computer or network. 
After years of research on real-world phishing data, Shanée and her colleagues created a measurement scale that uses a rating system with cues that can indicate a message is a phishing attack. When chief information security officers review data from their staff training efforts, the Phish Scale can put the numbers into perspective. 
Learn more about the tool and how your organization can implement it.
At the end of the day, it’s all about helping people. Shanée can study how they interact with technology, then work to publish standards and guidance to improve that technology. The result is a real and lasting impact on people’s lives.

Follow us on social media for more like this from all across NIST!






Information technology, Cybersecurity, Usability and human factors, Public safety and Public safety communications research











Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsInformation Technology LaboratoryInformation Access DivisionVisualization and Usability Group












Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released February 3, 2023, Updated February 14, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














