











































NIST Calls for Information to Support Safe, Secure and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/12/nist-calls-information-support-safe-secure-and-trustworthy-development-and














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















NEWS



NIST Calls for Information to Support Safe, Secure and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence


December 19, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email














NIST seeks information to support its response to the Executive Order on AI.
Comments received will help NIST develop guidelines for evaluation and red-teaming; consensus-based standards; and more.
Responses are due Feb. 2, 2024.










Credit:
          
  everything possible/Shutterstock

        


GAITHERSBURG, Md. — The U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has issued a Request for Information (RFI) that will assist in the implementations of its responsibilities under the recent Executive Order on Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI). The order directs NIST to develop guidelines for evaluation, red-teaming and more; facilitate development of consensus-based standards; and provide testing environments for the evaluation of AI systems. These guidelines and infrastructure will be a resource to help the AI community in the safe and trustworthy development and responsible use of AI.  
“President Biden has been clear — AI is the defining technology of our generation, and we have an obligation to harness the power of AI for good while protecting people from its risks. As part of the president’s Executive Order, the Department of Commerce is soliciting feedback across industry, academia, civil society and more so we can develop industry standards around AI safety, security, and trust that will enable America to continue leading the world in the responsible development and use of this rapidly evolving technology,” said U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo.  
The responses to the request for information will support NIST’s efforts to evaluate capabilities relating to AI technologies and develop a variety of guidelines called for in the Executive Order. The RFI specifically calls for information related to AI red-teaming, generative AI risk management, reducing the risk of synthetic content, and advancing responsible global technical standards for AI development.
“We look forward to strengthening our engagement with the community to advance our understanding of AI measurement and evaluation as we begin to work toward the goals set out in the Executive Order,” said Under Secretary of Standards and Technology and NIST Director Laurie E. Locascio. “I want to invite the broader AI community to engage with our talented and dedicated team through this request for information to advance the measurement and practice of AI safety and trust. It is essential that we gather all perspectives as we work to establish a strong and unbiased scientific understanding of AI, which has the potential to impact so many areas of our lives.”
NIST develops guidance through an open and transparent process that involves a wide range of stakeholders from industry, academia, government and civil society. 
Other assignments to NIST in the Executive Order related to cybersecurity and privacy, synthetic nucleic acid sequencing, and supporting agencies’ implementation of minimum risk-management practices are being addressed separately from this RFI. Information about NIST’s assignments and plans under the Executive Order, along with further opportunities for public input, may be found on the NIST website.  
Responses will be accepted until Feb. 2, 2024, and will be posted to www.regulations.gov. The information collected will inform the drafting of guidance that NIST will release for public comment. 





Information technology, Artificial intelligence, Applied AI, Fundamental AI, Cybersecurity, Risk management and Trustworthy platforms








Media Contact




Jennifer Huergo

jennifer.huergo@nist.gov


    (301) 975-6343
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsInformation Technology LaboratoryInformation Technology Laboratory OfficeOffice of Emerging Technologies












Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released December 19, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














