











































The METIS Data Exchange Ecosystem Seeks Your Input | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/12/metis-data-exchange-ecosystem-seeks-your-input














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















UPDATES



The METIS Data Exchange Ecosystem Seeks Your Input


CHIPS for America has released the initial public draft of NIST CHIPS SP-1000-2 ipd for public comment. The comment period closes on January 31, 2024.


December 14, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email














The Metrology Exchange to Innovate in Semiconductors (METIS) data exchange ecosystem created by NIST will answer the needs of the microelectronics community by making federally funded CHIPS Metrology Program research data and other relevant NIST products accessible to the broader microelectronics community.
The METIS concept leverages and builds upon currently existing data management systems and processes within NIST.
METIS protects the intellectual property of contributors with NIST cybersecurity standards and controls.




NIST and CHIPS request comments on the draft of Special Publication 1000-2 ipd, Building a Metrology Exchange to Innovate in Semiconductors (METIS). This publication presents the vision for ensuring that the direct results of federally funded scientific research under the CHIPS Metrology Program are made available to and useful for the public, industry, and the scientific community. The dissemination and exchange of data, models, and other data products convey the outcomes of world-leading microelectronics research to the marketplace, enabling and supporting America’s security and commercial competitiveness.
NIST CHIPS Special Publication 1000-2, Building a Metrology Exchange to Innovate in Semiconductors (METIS), outlines the vision for a data exchange ecosystem that provides stakeholders with access to CHIPS Metrology research results. This vision describes the functionality of METIS and how it may be used.
Get the draft METIS publication and the comment template from the METIS project page. We request that all comments be submitted by 11:59 pm Eastern Time on January 31, 2024. Please submit your comments to research [at] chips.gov (research[at]chips[dot]gov).
Background
The CHIPS Metrology Program, part of the CHIPS Research and Development Office at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), is a collaborative program bringing together NIST staff with stakeholders from industry, other government agencies, and academic institutions to address measurement challenges related to microelectronics manufacturing. Through this collaboration, the CHIPS Metrology Program expands upon NIST’s strong track record of supporting the microelectronics technology and manufacturing ecosystem by developing, advancing, and deploying measurements, standards, reference materials, and best practices. 
There is an immediate need to make NIST research funded through the CHIPS Metrology Program available in a manner that guards intellectual property, protects U.S. security interests, is aligned with the approach used by NIST for access to research results, and is self-sustaining to meet future needs. A data exchange ecosystem will meet that need, giving stakeholders access to CHIPS Metrology research results and catalyzing breakthroughs in U.S. semiconductor manufacturing. We call this data exchange concept “METIS”—Metrology Exchange to Innovate in Semiconductors—after Metis, the Greek goddess of innovative ideas, good counsel, skill, and craft. The METIS concept leverages and builds upon current data management systems and processes within NIST, an organization uniquely qualified to both produce and manage leading metrology research and technical data products. By designing the data ecosystem around and for research that meets the needs of the public, industry, and the scientific community, METIS shepherds the research process from the start and provides security and controls to enable the final products to reach their intended recipients.
Learn more about the CHIPS Metrology Program and CHIPS for America.





Electronics, Semiconductors, Information technology, Cybersecurity, Data and informatics, Manufacturing and Metrology








Technical Contact




Gretchen Greene

gretchen.greene@nist.gov


    (301) 975-6733
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsDirector's OfficeCreating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors for America (CHIPS)CHIPS Research & Development Program OfficeSemiconductor Metrology & Characterization Office












Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released December 14, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














