














AI hallucinations pose 'direct threat' to science, Oxford study warns















































































Skip to content










Toggle Navigation












                                News
                            


Events



TNW Conference 2024
June 20 & 21, 2024




TNW Vision: 2024





All events







                                Spaces
                            



                                Programs
                            






Newsletters




Partner with us






































Jobs

Contact






The Next Web



News

news
news
news





Latest


Deep tech


Sustainability


Ecosystems


Data and security


Fintech and ecommerce


Future of work


More



Startups and technology




Investors and funding




Government and policy




Corporates and innovation




Gadgets & apps











Have you convinced your boss yet? Groups get the best deals 🎟️ Buy now before price increase →












Deep tech



                                AI hallucinations pose ‘direct threat’ to science, Oxford study warns
                            

                                    The scientific community shouldn't use LLMs as a source of knowledge 
                                


November 20, 2023 - 4:00 pm











































Large Language Models (LLMs) — such as those used in chatbots — have an alarming tendency to hallucinate. That is, to generate false content that they present as accurate. These AI hallucinations pose, among other risks, a direct threat to science and scientific truth, researchers at the Oxford Internet Institute warn.
According to their paper, published in Nature Human Behaviour, “LLMs are designed to produce helpful and convincing responses without any overriding guarantees regarding their accuracy or alignment with fact.”
LLMs are currently treated as knowledge sources and generate information in response to questions or prompts. But the data they’re trained on isn’t necessarily factually correct. One reason behind this is that these models often use online sources, which can contain false statements, opinions, and inaccurate information.
“People using LLMs often anthropomorphise the technology, where they trust it as a human-like information source,” explained Professor Brent Mittelstadt, co-author of the paper.
Get your ticket NOW for TNW Conference - Bring your colleagues to get the best dealsUnleash innovation, connect with thousands of tech lovers and shape the future on June 20-21, 2024.
Group tickets
“This is, in part, due to the design of LLMs as helpful, human-sounding agents that converse with users and answer seemingly any question with confident sounding, well-written text. The result of this is that users can easily be convinced that responses are accurate even when they have no basis in fact or present a biased or partial version of the truth.”
When it comes to science and education, information accuracy is of vital importance and the researchers urge the scientific community to use LLMs as “zero-shot translators.” This means that users should provide the model with the appropriate data and ask to transform it into a conclusion or code, for instance — instead of relying on the model itself as a source of knowledge.
This way it becomes easier to check that the output is factually correct and in line with the provided input.
LLMs will “undoubtedly” assist with scientific workflows, according to the Oxford professors. But it’s crucial for the community to use them responsibly and maintain clear expectations on how they can actually contribute.











                                        Story by
                                    


                                            Ioanna Lykiardopoulou
                                        





                                            Ioanna is a writer at TNW. She covers the full spectrum of the European tech ecosystem, with a particular interest in startups, sustainabili

                                                                                            
                                                    (show all)
                                                


                                            Ioanna is a writer at TNW. She covers the full spectrum of the European tech ecosystem, with a particular interest in startups, sustainability, green tech, AI, and EU policy. With a background in the humanities, she has a soft spot for social impact-enabling technologies.
                                        




Get the TNW newsletter
Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.


Also tagged with



AI




                                Published November 20, 2023 - 4:00 pm UTC

Back to top





























Story by
Ioanna Lykiardopoulou


























Popular articles


1


New erotic roleplaying chatbots promise to indulge your sexual fantasies




2


UK plan to lead in generative AI ‘unrealistic,’ say Cambridge researchers




3


New AI tool could make future vaccines ‘variant-proof,’ researchers say




4


3D-printed stem cells could help treat brain injuries




5


New technique makes AI hallucinations wake up and face reality
















Related Articles













                                            deep tech
                                        

Babbel’s new speech tools aim to boost foreign language confidence














                                            deep tech
                                        

How the UK is looking to lead the world in generative AI for lawtech










Join TNW All Access
Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free →

                                                Sign up now
                                            













                                            deep tech
                                        

A prisoner’s dilemma shows AI’s path to human cooperation














                                            deep tech
                                        

AI is transforming the English dictionary
























The heart of tech
















More TNW

Media
Events
Programs
Spaces
Newsletters
Jobs in tech



About TNW

Partner with us
Jobs
Terms & Conditions
Cookie Statement
Privacy Statement
Editorial Policy
Masthead











                    Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V.
                    Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
                    










