














































CHIPS R&D Digital Twin Technical Standards Workshop | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/events/2023/12/chips-rd-digital-twin-technical-standards-workshop














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources





















EVENTS


CHIPS R&D Digital Twin Technical Standards Workshop




Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email
















Read the Code of Conduct for NIST Conferences.






workshop




              December 14 - 15, 2023




NIST's National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE)
9700 Great Seneca Highway
Rockville, MD 20850


Register Now


The in-person registration fee is $25.00 and includes all-day beverage service. Virtual registration is free.
Registration for in-person attendance closes on December 7, 2023.


Registration Contact



Sabina Mohan

sabina.mohan@nist.gov


    (301) 975-2002
  





Technical Contact



Yaw S. Obeng

yaw.obeng@nist.gov


    (301) 975-8093
  


Jan Obrzut

jan.obrzut@chips.gov


    (301) 975-6845
  















Credit:
          
  Andrew Kim

        



Technical standards for digital twin capabilities in the semiconductor and microelectronics industry will be the subject of a December workshop sponsored by the CHIPS Research and Development Office. The workshop will be a hybrid in-person and virtual event from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time December 14, 2023, and 8:30 am to 12:30 pm December 15, 2023.  
The event will focus on the potential for digital twin applications—including modeling, simulation, and co-simulation—to support reliable, resilient and high-quality manufacturing processes and enable trusted supply chains.
Technical experts from industry, academia, standards setting organizations, and industry alliances, both domestic and abroad, are encouraged to participate and contribute to identifying community priorities for specific standards efforts. Factors to be considered in identifying digital twin standards priorities include potential for broad impact, feasibility for accelerated development, and suitability for various standards development channels, including through alliances, incubators and accelerators, and standards setting organizations.
This one and one-half day hybrid event provides an opportunity to network and exchange ideas with thought leaders across the sector. The morning of Day One features plenary and panel sessions with exemplary keynote and guest speakers. Breakout sessions the afternoon of Day One and the morning of Day Two provide an opportunity for participants to collaborate and discuss key topics that will shape future digital twin standards activities. Key findings will be published in a post-workshop report and will inform standards planning efforts across the semiconductor innovation ecosystem and within the CHIPS R&D Office.
We encourage interested stakeholders, industry representatives, and standards setting organizations to participate actively in this pivotal event. We also invite international attendees, as fostering global collaboration and enriching the discussions on advancing semiconductor standards and innovation is paramount to success. Join us at the CHIPS R&D Digital Twin Technical Standards Workshop as we collaboratively shape the future of semiconductor and microelectronics standards, foster innovation, and advance the industry as a whole. Finally, we note that a related workshop focused on chiplet interface technical standards will be held Dec. 12-13 at the same site. Information regarding this related workshop (separate registration required) can be found on the chips.gov website for those who may want to attend both events. 







    Agenda
  


December 14, 2023 8:30am-5:00pm ET
December 15, 2023 8:30am-12:30pm ET









    Security Instructions
  


*Visitor Access Requirement:
For Non-US Citizens:  Please have your valid passport for photo identification.
For US Permanent Residents: Please have your green card for photo identification.
For US Citizens: Please have your state-issued driver's license. Regarding Real-ID requirements, all states are in compliance or have an extension through May 2025.
NIST also accepts other forms of federally issued identification in lieu of a state-issued driver's license, such as a valid passport, passport card, DOD's Common Access Card (CAC), Veterans ID, Federal Agency HSPD-12 IDs, and Military Dependents ID.







Electronics, Semiconductors, Information technology, Artificial intelligence, Complex systems, Manufacturing, Factory operations planning and control, Process measurement and control, Quality assurance, Supply chain, Standards, Documentary standards and Frameworks









Read the Code of Conduct for NIST Conferences.






workshop




              December 14 - 15, 2023




NIST's National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE)
9700 Great Seneca Highway
Rockville, MD 20850


Register Now


The in-person registration fee is $25.00 and includes all-day beverage service. Virtual registration is free.
Registration for in-person attendance closes on December 7, 2023.


Registration Contact



Sabina Mohan

sabina.mohan@nist.gov


    (301) 975-2002
  





Technical Contact



Yaw S. Obeng

yaw.obeng@nist.gov


    (301) 975-8093
  


Jan Obrzut

jan.obrzut@chips.gov


    (301) 975-6845
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersDirector's OfficeCHIPS Research & Development Program Office
















  Created October 17, 2023, Updated October 31, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














