














































NIST Leader Gives Overview of Automated Vehicle R&D to South Korean Representatives | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/09/nist-leader-gives-overview-automated-vehicle-rd-south-korean














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















UPDATES



NIST Leader Gives Overview of Automated Vehicle R&D to South Korean Representatives


September 01, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email




















Credit:
          
  CTL

        


In August 2023, representatives from NIST, U.S. organizations, and Korean organizations, including the Korea Automotive Technology Institute (KATECH) and the Korean Standards Organization (KSA), met in the South Korea-U.S. Standards Forum to exchange information and explore possible areas of collaboration on automated vehicles (AV). The hybrid meeting was held in person in Seoul, Korea on August 10, 2023 with additional remote participation (August 9, 2023 in the U.S.). At the meeting, NIST’s Jayne Morrow, Senior Advisor for Standards Policy, provided a keynote address on the status of the U.S. National Standards Strategy, and NIST’s David Wollman, Deputy Division Chief of the Smart Connected Systems Division, presented NIST’s research on AVs.
Wollman covered the foundational work for NIST’s involvement with automated vehicles, including research on AV communications, cybersecurity, vehicle teleoperation, and other related areas. NIST’s early work to engage stakeholders included an AV workshop focused on identifying and developing safety measurement methodologies for AVs. This effort led to NIST launching an Automated Driving Systems Technical Working Group which pursues ways to assess AV performance, including through identification of an Operating Envelope Specification to support AV measurements and testing. 
Wollman also presented an overview of NIST’s AV program, including the following projects:
Automotive Sensor Perception: Developing measurement capability to characterize automotive sensors.
Artificial Intelligence (AI): Developing simulation capability to enable testing of AI algorithms for AVs.
Cybersecurity: Developing an automotive cybersecurity community of interest and capability for measuring adversarial machine learning and defensive mitigations in AVs.
Communication Technologies: Developing co-simulation capability to assess AV communications performance.
Systems Interaction Testbed: Developing an integrated testbed to evaluate systems interactions in automated vehicles.
Additionally, Wollman previewed NIST’s Standards and Performance Metrics for On-Road Automated Vehicles Workshop, that was subsequently held in early September 2023.
At this same event, Dr. You-Jun Choi of the Korea Automotive Technology Institute (KATECH) presented on its connected automated vehicle research and development trends and standards issues.
Choi stated that Korea’s Automated Vehicle Innovation R&D Project seeks to realize fully automated driving in the next 5+ years, and Korea is pursuing projects in the following strategic areas: 
New vehicle convergence technology
New convergence of information and communications technology
New road traffic convergence technology
Service creation for AVs
Establishment of an industrial ecosystem
Korea’s Automated Mobility Center oversees these projects and integrates the results. Choi noted that Korea has set milestones for national implementation of AVs, including establishing hybrid communications for AVs and commercializing AVs. Choi reinforced the significance of the U.S. National Standards Strategy for Critical Emerging Technology, which seeks to deepen standards cooperation with allies and partners to support a robust standards governance process. Choi provided an overview of Korea’s extensive research collaborations, including with SAE and NIST’s Smart Connected Systems Division. Additionally, Choi addressed the challenges facing AV development that Korea seeks to overcome, such as vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communications and cybersecurity.





Advanced communications, Wireless (RF), Information technology, Cyber-physical systems, Smart cities, Internet of Things (IoT), Networking, Manufacturing, Standards, Documentary standards, Transportation and Automotive








Technical Contact




David A. Wollman

david.wollman@nist.gov


    (301) 975-2433
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsCommunications Technology LaboratorySmart Connected Systems DivisionIoT Devices and Infrastructures GroupTransformational Networks and Services Group













Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released September 1, 2023, Updated October 11, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














