














































Automated Vehicle Stakeholders Get Updates on NIST Research and Inform Future Efforts | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/09/automated-vehicle-stakeholders-get-updates-nist-research-and-inform-future














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















UPDATES



Automated Vehicle Stakeholders Get Updates on NIST Research and Inform Future Efforts


September 01, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email





















Credit:
          
  CTL

        



NIST held its Standards and Performance Metrics for On-Road Automated Vehicles Workshop, September 5-8, 2023, with stakeholders participating virtually from across the U.S. and other countries. 
In the first day keynote addresses, U.S. Congresswoman Haley Stevens and NIST’s Deputy Associate Director of Laboratory Programs Hannah Brown provided welcoming remarks, and NIST’s Jayne Morrow presented the National Standards Strategy for Critical and Emerging Technology, which informs the pursuit of AV standards. The overall keynote speaker, Acting Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Ann Carlson, addressed the Administration’s AV safety initiatives, and mentioned NIST’s Automated Driving Systems Performance Measurements and Metrics. Other speakers addressed issues related to AV development.
NIST AV project leads provided updates on the following work, which was motivated by stakeholder inputs from the 2022 AV workshop. Each NIST update presentation was paired with an industry keynote address, and followed by a breakout session to obtain stakeholder input, as described in the workshop agenda. More information on NIST’s AV research program is online.
Systems Interactions: The performance of an automated vehicle depends on the interactions that occur between systems and components, such as sensors and communications. NIST is developing a framework for evaluating specific interactions, and has developed initial simulations for a systems interaction testbed.
AV Perception: NIST has developed a testbed for evaluating AV perception and sensing, and is now developing evaluation methods using International Systems of Units (SI) traceable artifacts. The focus has been on testing lidars in controlled indoor environments and will progress to more dynamic environments.
AV Communications: NIST is evaluating AV communications requirements, developing network modeling capabilities, and integrating the models into an AV co-simulation and the systems interaction testbed.
Minimizing Artificial Intelligence Risks: NIST is developing capability for estimating the uncertainties in machine learning models, including producing a taxonomy of attacks, and mitigation and defining terminology in the field of adversarial machine learning.
Cybersecurity: NIST has established an Automotive Cybersecurity Community of Interest to inform industry stakeholders on NIST cybersecurity work relevant to AVs, and NIST is developing the Dioptra software platform to help characterize and evaluate machine learning systems under a diverse set of conditions.
Digital Infrastructure: NIST partnered with several state Departments of Transportation, SAE International standards organization, and others in a special workshop session to explore requirements for future traffic infrastructure needed to communicate information and enable AV safety. It was proposed that a national organization develop a use-case template to help communities identify and develop such infrastructure.
NIST is planning to publish a report on the workshop.





Advanced communications, Wireless (RF), Information technology, Cyber-physical systems, Internet of Things (IoT), Networking, Infrastructure, Standards, Documentary standards, Transportation and Automotive








Technical Contact




David A. Wollman

david.wollman@nist.gov


    (301) 975-2433
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsCommunications Technology LaboratorySmart Connected Systems DivisionIoT Devices and Infrastructures GroupTransformational Networks and Services Group













Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released September 1, 2023, Updated October 11, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














