














































NIST Seeks Input on Implementation of National Standards Strategy for Critical and Emerging Technology | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/09/nist-seeks-input-implementation-national-standards-strategy-critical-and














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















NEWS



NIST Seeks Input on Implementation of National Standards Strategy for Critical and Emerging Technology


September 07, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email




















Credit:
          
  Have a Nice Day Photo/Shutterstock

        



The comment period for this Request for Information has been extended through Dec. 22, 2023. Submit comments via the Federal Register notice.

GAITHERSBURG, Md. — The U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has published a Request for Information seeking public input on how best to implement the U.S. Government National Standards Strategy for Critical and Emerging Technology (USG NSSCET). 
“It is critical to our economy and national security that we have high quality standards for the critical and emerging technologies that will transform the way we live and work,” said Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology and NIST Director Laurie E. Locascio. “We are asking experts and stakeholders to share their best ideas for implementing a national strategy that will strengthen U.S. leadership and competitiveness in each of these sectors.”
The strategy promotes technologically sound standards that help American industry compete internationally on a level playing field and is intended to support and complement existing private sector-led activities. The strategy focuses on critical and emerging technologies including, among others:
Communication and networking technologies
Semiconductors and microelectronics
Artificial intelligence and machine learning
Biotechnologies
Positioning, navigation and timing services
Digital identity infrastructure and distributed ledger technologies
Clean energy generation and storage
Quantum information technologies
NIST is seeking information that will support the development of the most effective implementation plan for the USG NSSCET, which was published in May. The agency is seeking public input on the best ways to partner with relevant stakeholders, remove barriers to participation in international standards development, and enhance the U.S. government’s support for an international standards system that is open, consensus-based, and led by the private sector. 
The RFI poses several questions in each of four broad categories: investment, participation, workforce, and integrity and inclusivity. While specifically seeking input on these topics, NIST welcomes all responses that stakeholders believe will support a robust and successful implementation of the strategy.
All submissions received in response to this RFI will be posted on the NIST website. Responses are due by 11:59 p.m. Eastern time on Dec. 22, 2023 (extended from 5 p.m. Eastern time on Nov. 6, 2023). Full details on responding can be found in the Federal Register notice.  
NIST will hold a series of listening sessions and stakeholder events about the USG NSSCET while the RFI is open. For event announcements and other information about the USG NSSCET, visit www.standards.gov.





Advanced communications, Bioscience, Electronics, Energy, Environment, Information technology, Manufacturing, Physics, Quantum information science, Standards and Transportation








Media Contact




Rich Press

richard.press@nist.gov


    (301) 975-0501
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsLaboratory ProgramsStandards Coordination OfficeDirector's OfficeDirector's Office












Related Links


U.S. Government National Standards Strategy for Critical and Emerging Technology





Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released September 7, 2023, Updated November 21, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














