











































NIST Releases NextG Wireless R&D Gap Analysis | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2023/12/nist-releases-nextg-wireless-rd-gap-analysis














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Our Organization


Office of the Director


Budget & Planning





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















UPDATES



NIST Releases NextG Wireless R&D Gap Analysis


December 14, 2023





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email














NIST and NSF partners engaged with stakeholders from government, academia, and industry to identify crucial technology innovations and research opportunities that could propel innovations in wireless communications over the next two decades. 













As the transition from fifth-generation wireless systems (5G) to next-generation communications systems (NextG) advances, research and development (R&D) communities have the chance to identify key wireless communications research gaps. Addressing these gaps could propel innovations in wireless communications over the next two decades. To respond to this need, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), in collaboration with the National Science Foundation (NSF), published the Next Generation Communications R&D Gaps Report as NIST SP 1293.  NIST and NSF partners engaged with stakeholders from government, academia, and industry to identify crucial technology innovations and research opportunities for NextG systems.
The report highlights the major technology gaps that research and development organizations could focus on to drive long-term innovation in Next Generation (NextG) technology across key verticals such as hardware, higher frequencies, joint communications, sensing, and energy-efficient networks. The report describes 108 new technology gaps, which are built upon the findings published in NIST's Special Publication 1219 report titled "Future Generation Wireless R&D Gap Analysis" which was released in 2018. The new report reflects 18 months of stakeholder engagement with NextG experts emphasizing:
R&D Shortfalls: Issues either untouched or needing more resources.
Long-term View: Research gaps with a 10–20-year horizon.
Convergence Acceleration: Leveraging capabilities across the NextG ecosystem.
Alignment with Federal R&D: Gaps suited for government intervention due to their high-risk/high-reward nature.
Starting in 2021, the NIST and NSF teams assessed future wireless R&D challenges by reviewing existing studies and market trends. Post this literature review, the teams conducted interviews with stakeholders to comprehend their R&D focuses, challenges, and expectations for future communications systems. In April 2022, the team convened a public working group comprising over 50 stakeholders. The working group formulated a comprehensive set of long-term R&D gaps and questions. The feedback mechanism involved surveys and discussions on specific topics to ensure the final report was technically accurate and relevant.
The findings spanned multiple areas:
Trends and Drivers: Understanding how external factors like U.S. industry policies and standards development processes influence NextG innovations.
Hardware and Higher Frequency R&D Gaps: Delving into the technology requirements and challenges related to hardware capabilities for NextG use cases.
Spectrum Science and Sharing R&D Gaps: Discussing the technology hurdles in spectrum sharing and utilization, given the data-intensive nature of NextG applications.
Joint Communications and Sensing R&D Gaps: Researching the potential of integrating radar sensing with internet-based networks for efficient NextG communications.
AI and ML R&D Gaps: The need to harness data science and machine learning to improve network resource distribution and allow new NextG application domains.
Data Availability, Use, and Privacy R&D Gaps: Addressing governance and tech-related challenges in data acquisition and management for NextG applications.
NextG Network Architectures R&D Gaps: Understanding how to develop versatile networks to accommodate the variety of devices and applications in NextG.
Non-Terrestrial Network R&D Gaps: Investigating the challenges of integrating non-terrestrial networks, like satellites, with traditional networks for better communications systems.
Sustainable Networks R&D Gaps: Focusing on creating power-efficient and sustainable NextG networks.
As we navigate the transition to NextG, this report highlights the critical focus areas for the R&D community, offering a roadmap for the next two decades in wireless communications innovation.  
 





Advanced communications, Open Radio Access Network (Open-RAN), Spectrum sharing, Wireless (RF), Information technology, Internet of Things (IoT), Mobile and Networking








Technical Contact




Nada T. Golmie

nada.golmie@nist.gov


    (301) 975-4190
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsCommunications Technology Laboratory









Related Publications


NextG Communications Research and Development Gaps Report





Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released December 14, 2023


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














