











































NIST Participates in White House Summit on Standards for Critical and Emerging Technology | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2024/07/nist-participates-white-house-summit-standards-critical-and-emerging














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standard Reference Instruments (SRIs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Leadership


Organization Structure


Budget & Planning




Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Student programs





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















NEWS



NIST Participates in White House Summit on Standards for Critical and Emerging Technology


July 29, 2024





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email




















Credit:
          
  Have a Nice Day Photo/Shutterstock

        


GAITHERSBURG, Md. — The U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) participated in a summit at the White House last week where representatives of government agencies, industry and standards development organizations discussed the U.S. Government National Standards Strategy for Critical and Emerging Technology (USG NSSCET). This strategy promotes technologically sound standards that help American industry compete internationally on a level playing field and is intended to support and complement existing private sector-led standards activities.In addition, the Biden-Harris administration has released the USG NSSCET Implementation Roadmap, which includes recommendations and actions for implementing the strategy, along with a fact sheet about the roadmap.“This plan is a call to action,” said Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology and NIST Director Laurie E. Locascio. “It is time for all of us — the U.S. government, our partners and allies, the private sector, academia, professional societies and civil society organizations — to work together to sustain our proven, voluntary, consensus-driven, private sector-led standards system. In short, the release of the Implementation Roadmap is the start of our efforts, not the end.”The USG NSSCET, released in May 2023, focuses on critical and emerging technologies (CETs), including communication and networking technologies, quantum information technologies, semiconductors and microelectronics, artificial intelligence, biotechnologies and clean energy technologies, among others.U.S. government departments and agencies worked together to create the Implementation Roadmap with extensive feedback from the private sector and the broader stakeholder community. The roadmap recommends actions that the U.S. government can take to increase investment in pre-standards development activities for CETs, broaden CET standards participation, grow a CET standards-savvy workforce, and ensure inclusivity and integrity in the CET standards development process. Actions and outcomes spelled out in the USG NSSCET Implementation Roadmap also define how the U.S. government can bolster support for the private sector-led standards system in the United States and the U.S. Standards Strategy published by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). “The fact that our U.S. system is open, market-driven, and private sector-led is critical to achieving the widely shared policy goals of expanded U.S. leadership and innovation on the global stage,” said Mary Saunders, ANSI senior vice president of government relations and public policy. “U.S. government actions to enhance standards coordination across the federal government — at both the technical and policy levels — and to provide strong and sustained funding for CET R&D are important. Enhanced educational efforts across the government will also contribute to a stronger, more informed public-private partnership and a robust standardization system.”After the roadmap was introduced at the summit, Cabinet-level leaders discussed navigating a rapidly evolving international standards landscape and strategies for strengthening U.S. economic and national security through standards development. Remarks and panel discussions focused on the U.S. government’s plan to foster its commitment to public-private partnerships for CET standards, address challenges and opportunities in the global CET landscape, support private-sector leadership in global standards, and improve workforce development and partnership models.To develop the roadmap, NIST published a Request for Information (RFI) in the Federal Register in fall 2023 seeking public input on how best to implement the USG NSSCET and held a series of listening sessions and stakeholder events about the strategy while the RFI was open.The roadmap recommends immediate and long-term actions for the government to achieve sustained implementation outcomes, including:Increase investment in CET R&D and standardization to sustain U.S. technical leadership.Increase support for federal programs to remove barriers and promote U.S. stakeholder participation in international standards development.Enhance coordination across U.S. government departments and agencies to sustain and grow participation in standardization.Expand communication, information sharing and other cooperative efforts between the U.S. government and the private sector.Enhance educational efforts for current and future standards leaders.Enhance the representation and sustained influence of the U.S. government and governments of like-minded nations in the international standards system.Enhance academic engagement by providing critical partnerships that sustain the global standards innovation ecosystems.“Today we received a charge, a call to action to work together as public and private sectors to build capacity and coordinate our efforts to sustain U.S. engagement in the international standards system and leverage our combined expertise to advance critical and emerging technologies and U.S. innovation,” said NIST senior advisor for standards policy Jayne Morrow. “This is an exciting time for standards.”Earlier this month, NIST announced a funding opportunity to establish and maintain a Standardization Center of Excellence as a public-private partnership through a cooperative agreement that will support U.S. engagement in international standardization for CETs that are essential to U.S. economic competitiveness and national security. In fiscal year 2024, NIST anticipates funding one award of up to $6 million for a performance period of two years, then up to $3 million per year for up to three additional years. The application deadline is Aug. 7, 2024. More information is available on Grants.gov. Additional initiatives aimed at fostering greater engagement in international standards development will be announced on Standards.gov.





Advanced communications, Bioscience, Electronics, Energy, Environment, Information technology, Manufacturing, Physics, Quantum information science, Standards and Transportation








Media Contact




Rich Press

richard.press@nist.gov


    (301) 975-0501
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsLaboratory ProgramsStandards Coordination Office










Related News


NIST Seeks Public Input on Draft Roadmap for USG National Standards Strategy for CET
NIST Seeks Input on Implementation of National Standards Strategy for Critical and Emerging Technology





Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released July 29, 2024


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














