







































U.S. AI Safety Institute and European AI Office Hold Technical Dialogue | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2024/07/us-ai-safety-institute-and-european-ai-office-hold-technical-dialogue














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standard Reference Instruments (SRIs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Leadership


Organization Structure


Budget & Planning




Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Student programs





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















UPDATES



U.S. AI Safety Institute and European AI Office Hold Technical Dialogue


July 12, 2024





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email














On July 11, 2024, U.S. Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology Laurie E. Locascio and Director General of the European Commission’s DG Connect Roberto Viola, initiated a technical dialogue between the European AI Office (EUAIO) and the U.S. AI Safety Institute (USAISI). The dialogue, held at the Department of Commerce in Washington, D.C., aims to deepen bilateral collaboration on AI and foster scientific information exchange between the E.U. and the U.S. It was included as part of the sixth ministerial meeting of the U.S.-E.U. Trade and Technology Council.USAISI Director Elizabeth Kelly and EUAIO Director Lucilla Sioli led the technical discussion on best practices, key risks and other core questions related to AI. The dialogue focused on three key topics: watermarking and content authentication of synthetic content; government compute infrastructure; and AI for societal good. In this respect, the dialogue focused on weather modelling, which is key to enable simulations and forecasts and anticipate environmental disasters. The conversations featured a session on watermarking that included academics and civil society representatives. The government discussions brought together experts from the U.S. Department of Energy, National Science Foundation, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the Department of State as well as experts from the European AI Office, the Emerging and Enabling Technologies department of DG Connect, the European Commission's Joint Research Centre, and the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts. During the discussion, the EUAIO and USAISI expressed a shared interest to explore best practices and tools for watermarking and content provenance, promote these tools within their respective actions and further scientific and technical exchange on AI safety and trust to address risks arising from synthetic content. Both institutions reiterated the shared ambition to develop an international network among key partners to accelerate the advancement of the science of AI safety as articulated at the AI Seoul Summit. “This dialogue between the AI Safety Institute and EU AI Office highlights the strength of our partnership to facilitate the exchange of the latest scientific approaches and techniques from our experts in order to promote safe and trustworthy AI internationally,” said Laurie E. Locascio, Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology and director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).“Our EU-US cooperation strengthens our mutual trust and paves the way for an international network among key partners for a truly global impact on trustworthy AI for societal good,” said Roberto Viola, Director-General of the European Commission’s Directorate-General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology (DG Connect).





Information technology and Artificial intelligence











Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsInformation Technology Laboratory









Related Links


U.S. Artificial Intelligence Safety Institute





Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released July 12, 2024


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














