











































NIST Hosts Speaker on Building Inclusive Infrastructures in Academia | NIST








      Skip to main content
    










An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know


Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

              A lock (  

Lock
A locked padlock

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
            










https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2024/04/nist-hosts-speaker-building-inclusive-infrastructures-academia














Search NIST






Menu





Close


Topics




All Topics


Advanced communications


Artificial intelligence


Bioscience


Buildings and construction


Chemistry


Climate


Cybersecurity


Electronics


Energy



Environment


Fire


Forensic science


Health


Information technology


Infrastructure


Manufacturing


Materials


Mathematics and statistics



Metrology


Nanotechnology


Neutron research


Performance excellence


Physics


Public safety


Resilience


Standards


Transportation







Publications


Labs & Major Programs




Laboratories


Communications Technology Laboratory


Engineering Laboratory


Information Technology Laboratory


Material Measurement Laboratory


Physical Measurement Laboratory





User Facilities


NIST Center for Neutron Research


CNST NanoFab




Research Test Beds


Research Projects


Tools & Instruments



Major Programs


Baldrige Performance Excellence Program


CHIPS for America Initiative


Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)


Office of Advanced Manufacturing


Special Programs Office


Technology Partnerships Office









Services & Resources




Standards and Measurements


Calibration Services


Laboratory Accreditation (NVLAP)


Quality System


Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)


Standard Reference Instruments (SRIs)


Standards.gov


Time Services


Office of Weights and Measures





Software


Data


Chemistry WebBook


National Vulnerability Database


Physical Reference Data


Standard Reference Data (SRD)




Storefront


License & Patents



Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC)


NIST Research Library







News & Events




News


Events


Blogs


Feature Stories


Awards



Video Gallery


Image Gallery


Media Contacts







About NIST




About Us


Leadership


Organization Structure


Budget & Planning




Contact Us


Visit


Careers


Student programs





Work with NIST


History


NIST Digital Archives


NIST Museum


NIST and the Nobel




Educational Resources






















UPDATES



NIST Hosts Speaker on Building Inclusive Infrastructures in Academia


April 1, 2024





Share




Facebook




Linkedin




Twitter




Email





















Credit:
          
  CTL

        



In an enlightening and engaging session organized by the Belonging Initiative of NIST’s Smart Connected Systems Division, Dr. Sera Linardi (University of Pittsburgh; 2024 Siegel Faculty Impact Fellow at Cornell Tech) explored the possibilities and obstacles to building social innovation-focused academic research programs that are more responsive to the needs and perspectives of local communities and underserved groups. Dr. Linardi’s presentation “Take Three: Multiple Attempts to Build Inclusive Infrastructures in Academia” provided an overview of her comprehensive research and institution-building and personal experiences, including the nuanced challenges and creative strategies essential for fostering inclusivity in higher education.The first part of Dr. Linardi's presentation provided an introspective look at her journey as a pre-tenured faculty member, emphasizing the pivotal role of previous methodological training (“the hammer”) in the framing of research questions (“the nail”). Through this lens, Dr. Linardi illustrated the balancing act that community-oriented researchers have to undertake as they attempt to meet the threshold of academic rigor and innovation in their disciplines while reflecting the priorities and lived experiences of people in the community. This highlights the necessity of creating broader systems that recognize and intentionally provide support for understanding the complexity and cost of community-engaged research – which often goes unrewarded in the researcher’s discipline. Expanding the focus beyond the faculty perspective, Dr. Linardi next discussed service-learning infrastructures in universities and the limitations of individual disciplines and academic calendars in benefitting community partners. Dr. Linardi founded the Center for Analytical Approach to Social Innovation (CAASI) at Pitt to train multidisciplinary groups of students to co-design, implement, and co-lead community-requested projects over multiple semesters. CASSI was highlighted as an effective model for grassroots data science, fostering a shared sense of mission and belonging among diverse populations inside and outside the university’s walls. The third attempt at inclusive infrastructures discussed by Dr. Linardi took the form of Equity and Access in Algorithms, Mechanisms, and Optimization (EAAMO) – a multi-institutional initiative to support social justice-oriented early-career computational researchers.  Each attempt, as shared by Dr. Linardi, serves as a beacon for ongoing efforts to dismantle barriers and build a more inclusive, accessible academic world.Overall, Dr. Linardi’s presentation highlighted the multi-faceted and multi-disciplinary approaches needed to address inclusivity in academia. The concepts and social values resonated with participants in the Belonging Initiative, which promotes belonging and inclusivity for all, and creates a safe and open environment for meaningful data-driven conversations.  For additional information, please contact Wendy Guo (wenqi.guo [at] nist.gov (wenqi[dot]guo[at]nist[dot]gov)) or Dr. Linardi (linardi [at] pitt.edu (linardi[at]pitt[dot]edu)).





Advanced communications, Information technology, Internet of Things (IoT), Usability and human factors, Accessibility and Infrastructure








Technical Contact




Wenqi Wendy Guo

wenqi.guo@nist.gov


    (301) 975-5855
  








Organizations


NIST HeadquartersLaboratory ProgramsCommunications Technology LaboratorySmart Connected Systems Division











Sign up for updates from NIST



Enter Email Address














  Released April 1, 2024, Updated May 24, 2024


















HEADQUARTERS

              100 Bureau Drive
              Gaithersburg, MD 20899
301-975-2000


Webmaster | Contact Us | Our Other Offices






Twitter


Facebook


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube


Giphy


RSS Feed


Mailing List



            How are we doing? Feedback








Site Privacy


Accessibility


Privacy Program


Copyrights


Vulnerability Disclosure


No Fear Act Policy


FOIA


Environmental Policy


Scientific Integrity


Information Quality Standards


Commerce.gov


Science.gov


USA.gov


Vote.gov














