
















DHS Unveils New Shields Ready Campaign to Promote Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience | CISA


































Skip to main content




 





An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov
 A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
              






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
 A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
              













Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency
 America's Cyber Defense Agency



Search



 


Menu






Close


 




Topics



Topics





Cybersecurity Best Practices






Cyber Threats and Advisories






Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience






Election Security






Emergency Communications






Industrial Control Systems






Information and Communications Technology Supply Chain Security






Partnerships and Collaboration






Physical Security






Risk Management






        How can we help?
       
GovernmentEducational InstitutionsIndustryState, Local, Tribal, and TerritorialIndividuals and FamiliesSmall and Medium BusinessesFind Help LocallyFaith-Based CommunityExecutives





Spotlight




Resources & Tools



Resources & Tools





All Resources & Tools






Services






Programs






Resources






Training






Groups








News & Events



News & Events





News






Events






Cybersecurity Alerts & Advisories






Directives






Request a CISA Speaker






Congressional Testimony








Careers



Careers





Benefits & Perks






HireVue Applicant Reasonable Accommodations Process






Hiring






Resume & Application Tips






Students & Recent Graduates






Veteran and Military Spouses






Work @ CISA








About



About





Culture






Divisions & Offices






Regions






Leadership






Doing Business with CISA






Site Links






Reporting Employee and Contractor Misconduct






CISA GitHub






Contact Us 







Report a Cyber Issue





America's Cyber Defense Agency






Breadcrumb


Home


News & Events


News







Share:





































Press Release

DHS Unveils New Shields Ready Campaign to Promote Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience



ReleasedNovember 07, 2023



 Related topics: 

Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience 












WASHINGTON – Today, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) launched the new “Shields Ready” campaign to encourage the critical infrastructure community to focus on strengthening resilience. Resilience is the ability to prepare for, adapt to, withstand, and rapidly recover from disruptions caused by changing conditions. The new campaign was unveiled during a joint press conference at the Port of Long Beach alongside speakers from the Long Beach, California community and members of the U.S. Coast Guard.   Shields Ready complements CISA’s successful “Shields Up” campaign, which encourages critical infrastructure stakeholders to take specific, time-sensitive actions that reduce risk in response to specific threat intelligence during cyberattacks, physical security threats, or natural disasters in response to specific threat intelligence. Shields Ready focuses more broadly and strategically on how to prepare critical infrastructure for a potential disruption and how to build more resilience into systems, facilities, and processes by taking action before a crisis or incident even occurs. Shields Ready aligns with and complements FEMA’s Ready campaign. Each campaign webpage will feature and link to the other for easy reference and use. “In the constantly evolving threat environment that our nation faces today, our Department must remain ready and agile to prepare for and respond to threats against critical infrastructure,” saidSecretary of Homeland Security Alejandro N. Mayorkas. “The Shields Ready campaign, spearheaded by CISA and supported by FEMA, will ensure our nation’s critical infrastructure is better equipped and more resilient against all threats and hazards, ranging from cyberattacks to natural disasters. By working with our partners and providing them with the tools they need for more effective risk management and incident response, DHS is building on its critical safety and security mission and meeting the challenges of today and tomorrow.”“Our nations critical infrastructure entities—from schools to hospitals to water facilities—must have the tools and resources to respond to and recover from disruption. As the National Coordinator for critical infrastructure security, CISA is launching the Shields Ready campaign during Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month to improve the resilience of infrastructure Americans rely on every hour of every day,” said CISA Director Jen Easterly. “By taking steps today to prepare for incidents, critical infrastructure, communities and individuals can be better prepared to recover from the impact of the threats of tomorrow, and into the future.” “When our infrastructure partners in the public and private sector are prepared, their communities are able to respond better and recover faster after disasters,” said FEMA Administrator Criswell. “We are excited to partner with Director Easterly and our colleagues at CISA on their new Shields Ready campaign. In coordination with FEMA’s own Ready campaign, this new approach will help us encourage critical infrastructure stakeholders to practice preparedness and build a more resilient nation by creating plans to protect people and communities alike against hazardous events.”This focused approach highlights how critical infrastructure entities and other organizations can Resolve to be Resilient by integrating certain practices that will make themselves secure, resilient, and able to bounce back quickly and build back stronger from an incident, entities should: Know Your Infrastructure and Dependencies. Organizations should identify their most critical systems and assets for their operations and understand their potential dependencies on other infrastructure systems that enable the continuity of their own operations.Assess Your Risks. Consider the full range of threats and hazards that could disrupt your organization’s infrastructure operations and evaluate specific vulnerabilities and consequences the threats and hazards could pose.Make Actionable Plans. Organizations should develop both a strategic risk management plan to reduce the risks and vulnerabilities identified as well as actionable incident response and recovery plans to help withstand disruptions and rapidly restore operations within minimal downtime.Measure Progress to Continuously Improve. Exercise incident response and recovery plans under realistic conditions and periodically evaluate and update strategic plans. An organization’s ability to prepare for and adapt to changing risk conditions starts with fostering a culture of continuous improvement, based on lessons learned from exercises and real-world incidents.For more information, please visit: CISA.gov/ShieldsReady. 









Related Articles






Nov 26, 2023

Press Release



DHS CISA and UK NCSC Release Joint Guidelines for Secure AI System Development
 







Nov 14, 2023

Press Release



DHS Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency Releases Roadmap for Artificial Intelligence 
 







Nov 09, 2023

Press Release



CISA Signs Memorandum of Understanding with the Republic of Korea to Share Cyber Threat Information and Cybersecurity Best Practices 
 







Nov 07, 2023

Press Release



On Election Day, CISA and Partners Coordinate on Security Operations
 














Return to top






Topics


Spotlight


Resources & Tools


News & Events


Careers


About









Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency
 



Facebook


Twitter


LinkedIn


YouTube


Instagram


RSS



CISA Central
888-282-0870
Central@cisa.dhs.gov










DHS Seal

CISA.gov
An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security




About CISA


Accessibility


Budget and Performance


DHS.gov


FOIA Requests


No FEAR Act


Office of Inspector General


Privacy Policy


Subscribe


The White House


USA.gov


Website Feedback





























