
















CISA Releases Key Risk and Vulnerability Findings for Healthcare and Public Health Sector | CISA

































Skip to main content




 





An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov
 A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
              






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
 A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
              













Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency
 America's Cyber Defense Agency



Search



 


Menu






Close


 




Topics



Topics





Cybersecurity Best Practices






Cyber Threats and Advisories






Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience






Election Security






Emergency Communications






Industrial Control Systems






Information and Communications Technology Supply Chain Security






Partnerships and Collaboration






Physical Security






Risk Management






        How can we help?
       
GovernmentEducational InstitutionsIndustryState, Local, Tribal, and TerritorialIndividuals and FamiliesSmall and Medium BusinessesFind Help LocallyFaith-Based CommunityExecutives





Spotlight




Resources & Tools



Resources & Tools





All Resources & Tools






Services






Programs






Resources






Training






Groups








News & Events



News & Events





News






Events






Cybersecurity Alerts & Advisories






Directives






Request a CISA Speaker






Congressional Testimony








Careers



Careers





Benefits & Perks






HireVue Applicant Reasonable Accommodations Process






Hiring






Resume & Application Tips






Students & Recent Graduates






Veteran and Military Spouses






Work @ CISA








About



About





Culture






Divisions & Offices






Regions






Leadership






Doing Business with CISA






Site Links






Reporting Employee and Contractor Misconduct






CISA GitHub






Contact Us 







Report a Cyber Issue





America's Cyber Defense Agency






Breadcrumb


Home


News & Events


News







Share:





































Press Release

CISA Releases Key Risk and Vulnerability Findings for Healthcare and Public Health Sector  

Report provides recommended actions and mitigation strategies for HPH sector, critical infrastructure and software manufacturers  


ReleasedDecember 15, 2023



 Related topics: 

Cybersecurity Best Practices,                                                                                 Organizations and Cyber Safety,                                                                                 Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience 












WASHINGTON – The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) published a Cybersecurity Advisory (CSA), Enhancing Cyber Resilience: Insights from the CISA Healthcare and Public Health Sector Risk and Vulnerability Assessment, detailing the agency’s key findings and activities during a Risk and Vulnerability Assessment (RVA) conducted at a healthcare and public health (HPH) organization in early 2023. The advisory also provides network defenders and software manufacturers recommendations for improving their organizations’ and customers’ cyber posture, which reduces the impact of follow-on activity after initial access.  The CISA assessments team identified several findings as potentially exploitable vulnerabilities that could compromise the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the tested environment. Tailored for HPH organizations of all sizes as well as for all critical infrastructure organizations, the advisory provides several recommended mitigations mapped to 16 specific cybersecurity weaknesses identified during the RVA. Also, the advisory provides three mitigation strategies that all organizations should implement: (1) Asset management and security, (2) Identity management and device security, and (3) Vulnerability, patch, and configuration management. Each strategy has specific focus areas with details and steps on how HPH entities can implement them to strengthen their cybersecurity posture.  “Exposure of common vulnerabilities and insecure configurations can result in detrimental cyber activity for U.S. healthcare organizations, such as ransomware, data breaches, or denial-of-service. The intent of this advisory is to help organizations maintain the availability, confidentiality, and integrity of their critical healthcare and public health systems, functions, and data,” said CISA Deputy Director Nitin Natarajan. “Adversaries and criminals will continue to target organizations seen as target rich, cyber poor. To reduce the burden of cybersecurity on customers, manufacturers of HPH technology products should implement the recommended actions in the advisory that are aligned to our Principles and Approaches for Secure by Design Software white paper. Also, we strongly encourage healthcare entities and all organizations to review this advisory, implement the mitigations and enroll in our vulnerability scanning service which can further help reduce cyber risk.” This advisory builds on the CISA and Health and Human Services Healthcare Cybersecurity Toolkit and CISA’s Mitigation Guide for HPH Sector that were recently released. The recommended mitigations for network defenders are mapped to the Cross-Sector Cybersecurity Performance Goals (CPGs).  The recommended actions for software manufacturers are aligned to the recently updated, Principles and Approaches for Secure by Design Software, a joint guide co-sealed by 18 U.S. and international agencies. It urges software manufacturers to take urgent steps necessary to design, develop, and deliver products that are secure by design.  For more information and resources, HPH entities can visit CISA’s Healthcare and Public Health Cybersecurity Toolkit and Healthcare and Public Health Sector webpages.  ###About CISA As the nation’s cyber defense agency and national coordinator for critical infrastructure security, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency leads the national effort to understand, manage, and reduce risk to the digital and physical infrastructure Americans rely on every hour of every day.Visit CISA.gov for more information and follow us on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram. 









Related Articles






Dec 20, 2023

Press Release



CISA Issues Request For Information on Secure by Design Software Whitepaper
 







Dec 06, 2023

Press Release



CISA, NSA, FBI and International Cybersecurity Authorities Publish Guide on The Case for Memory Safe Roadmaps 
 







Dec 06, 2023

Press Release



Readout from CISA’s 2023 Fourth Quarter Cybersecurity Advisory Committee Meeting  
 







Nov 26, 2023

Press Release



DHS CISA and UK NCSC Release Joint Guidelines for Secure AI System Development
 














Return to top






Topics


Spotlight


Resources & Tools


News & Events


Careers


About









Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency
 



Facebook


Twitter


LinkedIn


YouTube


Instagram


RSS



CISA Central
888-282-0870
Central@cisa.dhs.gov










DHS Seal

CISA.gov
An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security




About CISA


Accessibility


Budget and Performance


DHS.gov


FOIA Requests


No FEAR Act


Office of Inspector General


Privacy Policy


Subscribe


The White House


USA.gov


Website Feedback




























