


















Readout from CISA’s 2023 Fourth Quarter Cybersecurity Advisory Committee Meeting   | CISA

































Skip to main content




 





An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov
 A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
              






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
 A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
              













Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency
 America's Cyber Defense Agency



Search



 


Menu






Close


 




Topics



Topics





Cybersecurity Best Practices






Cyber Threats and Advisories






Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience






Election Security






Emergency Communications






Industrial Control Systems






Information and Communications Technology Supply Chain Security






Partnerships and Collaboration






Physical Security






Risk Management






        How can we help?
       
GovernmentEducational InstitutionsIndustryState, Local, Tribal, and TerritorialIndividuals and FamiliesSmall and Medium BusinessesFind Help LocallyFaith-Based CommunityExecutives





Spotlight




Resources & Tools



Resources & Tools





All Resources & Tools






Services






Programs






Resources






Training






Groups








News & Events



News & Events





News






Events






Cybersecurity Alerts & Advisories






Directives






Request a CISA Speaker






Congressional Testimony








Careers



Careers





Benefits & Perks






HireVue Applicant Reasonable Accommodations Process






Hiring






Resume & Application Tips






Students & Recent Graduates






Veteran and Military Spouses






Work @ CISA








About



About





Culture






Divisions & Offices






Regions






Leadership






Doing Business with CISA






Site Links






Reporting Employee and Contractor Misconduct






CISA GitHub






Contact Us 







Report a Cyber Issue





America's Cyber Defense Agency






Breadcrumb


Home


News & Events


News







Share:





































Press Release

Readout from CISA’s 2023 Fourth Quarter Cybersecurity Advisory Committee Meeting  



ReleasedDecember 06, 2023



 Related topics: 

Organizations and Cyber Safety,                                                                                 Cybersecurity Best Practices,                                                                                 Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience 












CARLSBAD, Calif. - Yesterday, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) held its fourth and final 2023 quarterly Cybersecurity Advisory Committee (CSAC) meeting.During the meeting the Technical Advisory Council and Building Resilience and Reducing Systemic Risk to Critical Infrastructure subcommittees deliberated and voted on recommendations to forward to CISA Director Jen Easterly.The recommendations voted on today focused on advancing memory safe system languages (MSSL) and separately on efforts to further strengthen operational collaboration. The recommendations supplement those voted on in the September CSAC meeting, resulting in a total of 135 recommendations submitted in 2023. Today’s recommendations will now be submitted to Director Easterly in written form and posted on CISA.gov.“I am so pleased with the Committee’s work this year and look forward to an even more productive 2024 to help strengthen our nation’s cybersecurity,” said CISA Director Jen Easterly. “I’m especially excited to review the recommendations voted on today that will help advance CISA’s cybersecurity mission.”Director Easterly’s responses to the recommendations will be posted on cisa.gov.  Director Easterly also acknowledged the Committee’s new Chair, Ron Green from Mastercard, and Vice Chair, Dave DeWalt from NightDragon. Green follows outgoing inaugural Chair, Tom Fanning from Southern Company.  “I can’t thank Tom enough for the visionary leadership that he has provided to the CSAC. As founding chair of the advisory committee, he set a course for CISA that focused on innovation and process improvement for safer and more secure critical infrastructure. I am so excited to have Ron continue to provide his insight in this new position. I have the utmost confidence that Ron and Dave will continue the amazing work of the CSAC in advancing and strengthening our nation’s cybersecurity posture,” said Easterly. Established in 2021, the Committee was created to provide recommendations to the CISA Director that will help to advance the cybersecurity mission of the agency as well as to strengthen cybersecurity measures across the nation.    The next CISA CSAC meeting will be held virtually in March. Details and information on how to attend will be forthcoming.    The agenda from today’s meeting is available here. More information on CSAC is available here.     About CISA As the nation’s cyber defense agency and national coordinator for critical infrastructure security, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency leads the national effort to understand, manage, and reduce risk to the digital and physical infrastructure Americans rely on every hour of every day.Visit CISA.gov for more information and follow us on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram. 









Related Articles






Dec 20, 2023

Press Release



CISA Issues Request For Information on Secure by Design Software Whitepaper
 







Dec 15, 2023

Press Release



CISA Releases Key Risk and Vulnerability Findings for Healthcare and Public Health Sector  
 







Dec 06, 2023

Press Release



CISA, NSA, FBI and International Cybersecurity Authorities Publish Guide on The Case for Memory Safe Roadmaps 
 







Nov 26, 2023

Press Release



DHS CISA and UK NCSC Release Joint Guidelines for Secure AI System Development
 














Return to top






Topics


Spotlight


Resources & Tools


News & Events


Careers


About









Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency
 



Facebook


Twitter


LinkedIn


YouTube


Instagram


RSS



CISA Central
888-282-0870
Central@cisa.dhs.gov










DHS Seal

CISA.gov
An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security




About CISA


Accessibility


Budget and Performance


DHS.gov


FOIA Requests


No FEAR Act


Office of Inspector General


Privacy Policy


Subscribe


The White House


USA.gov


Website Feedback




























